Bloodletter: History Forgets, Humanity Repeat

Mihr is an endless cycle. Restoration and destruction, opportunity and failure. Opposite forces battling in futility for control as the eons slip by. Mighty gales and the mountains they break upon, beaches of soft sand and the ships dashed upon them. An exceedingly old planet, a planet whose surface has seen the foundations and destructions of empires innumerable. A planet carved from the death of a god, maintained by the lives of others. A planet whose surface seems to stretch on infinitely, each continent practically a world in its own right. Hundreds of millions of people, thousands of languages and tens of thousands of cultures. Even the name "Mihr" is not ubiquitous; the mountain peoples to the North call their lands _Kyavjilakh_, "Fervent Storm", as they see mighty typhoons breaking on the slopes of their mountains. To the far West, they use the word _Fehalam_, meaning "Third Daughter", in reference to the twin moons visible in the dead of night. Neither of these two peoples even know of the other's existence, for there is a great ocean between them. Their connection, however, requires no contact. They share the same planet, they work under the same sun, and they see the same stars. This connection unites them beyond any synthetic border, even those created by the Divine, but do not mistake this for congruity. In every culture, every village, every person, exists a unique story to tell. Every history eventually converges, but until that point there are customs to keep, rituals to carry out, and lessons to be learned. All one has to do is listen. Some stories one can only absorb from humanity, for their tales are their own and many only share with those they deem deserving. There are stories one may never hear; some are locked behind time, means, or Divinity. Others, however, one can hear from the world around them. To demonstrate this, I often sit at the base of any trees that strike my fancy during the fall months, when the winds are blowing softly and the leaves turn vibrant reds and oranges. A whisper of one such story of the land may be heard; a rush of a vowel, the breeze of a consonant. No more, no less. It often leaves you wondering _What else?_ What else is the wind seeking to share? What else is there to learn? Through my listening, I have come to the conclusion that the older an object is, the more stories it tends to tell, for the oldest objects have the most ancient of gods. The wind is a splendidly ancient object, around since the very beginning of the gods' plans, when this planet was little more than a lonely sheet of rock. The design of humanity also makes the wind into a deliciously good eavesdropper; I've spoken to the god of the wind, and she is quite the gossip. But truly, even smaller objects contain boundless value for storytelling; most hunger for a single being to listen; and so make for very eager performers. A quick glance at a boulder proves this; grooves show in its surface worn away by the elements over the course of millennia, mapping the changes in rainfall over more time than any civilization has existed. A careful study of the dips in a plain where an old lake used to lie reveals ancient fossils petrified in its dry bed. With a small amount of cajoling, they valleys tell their stories, their ridges bespoke of the passage of a river that dried up thirty thousand years ago. 

The mountains, however, do tend to tell the most stories; their god has always been a talkative man, and he is as ancient as these gods come. The mountains are talkative. They use the wind as a sort of medium to spin their tales, the gossip a flamboyant and willing participant. The story, however, that the mountains do _not_ want to tell is truly the most interesting to me. Their god's greatest failure; man. When human society spun to life all those thousands of years ago, they listened to the mountains, and they worshipped them. They were given shelter amongst their valleys, between their passes and beneath their overhangs. Humanity kept their knowledge through grooves in the stone, unyielding records that will remain for a fifty thousand years. However, even the mountains cannot tell all, and humanity seeks to know that which it does not. But the god of the mountains knew that some knowledge causes more harm than good. His children were numerous, and he sent his favorite amongst them to rile up the winds, harness the oceans, and thunder across the plains. He knew the destruction this would cause; but he was Divine, and could see the damage humanity would bring if left to their own devices. The god apologized to his brother in the plains and sent the storm. Humanity saw this and they were afraid, terrified of leaving their sanctuary in the mountains. The god knew this was a temporary fix, of course, as curiosity can only be restrained for so long before it explodes. His ideas were numerous but fleeting, often flawed in the way that only frantic reasoning can be. The centuries slipped by, and soon the god of the mountains was embroiled in a conflict beyond human comprehension. 

And in his absence, humanity _learned_.

A group began to extract precious stones from the mountain faces, and all negotiations were off. A child of the mountain god, she who was left as caretaker, became enraged. _How could her father's people do this? How could they destroy his glorious domain?_ And because she was lesser, she could not see the possibilities in the way her father did. She reacted violently. Frost set in, cliff sides collapsed. The mountains, roaring to action after all they had endured, tried their hardest to throw off the wicked parasites that dug ever deeper into their surface. The humans fought viciously for a long time. The mountains were all they had ever known, how could they leave? But some saw the greenery of the forests far below between storms, a far cry from their hellscape, and they yearned to know what was held within. Like before, their desire turned into a need, turned into _action_. Down the mountainside they went, into that which was previously unfamiliar and terrifying. Into naive, kind forests that opened their arms, welcomed the parasites into the fold. As their mines grew dusty and collapsed way up on the mountainsides, the humans forgot. They forgot the stories held within the mountains, within the world around them. They forgot all they could learn by just _listening_. The god of the mountains is chained now, his selfless sacrifice protecting humanity above from torture they could not even begin to imagine. He never knew their betrayal, and even if he did, they are his people. He loves them dearly, despite their faults. And despite his absence, his chambers in the realm of gods growing colder every century, his dominion still seeks to share. A whisper here, a syllable there. Stories waiting to be told.

But the only ones still listening are those amongst the humans who stayed in the mountains, all those years ago. The traditionalists, the faithful. They believe their god will one day return for them. They still worship the stone, but even they have forgotten many of the mountains' stories. They do not extract minerals, they shun metal. They may not remember why, but they see what metal represents. Destruction, violent progress. A path one cannot turn back from. They teach of compassion and of respect for that which is around you, for it has existed before and will exist after you. Because of their natural defenses, the mountain people have never needed to war. Their society is simple, robust, and calm. They seek to maintain what they have, instead of consuming what they want. But this lifestyle can be difficult, and while it seems peaceful whilst the times are good, when the worst takes its course the first thing to be blamed is meekness. A particularly freezing year arrives, and dissenters begin to grow as children and the elderly cling to life through the cold, shivering around fires that seem to grow ever colder. _We must expand!_ they say, _Our traditions bring ruin!_ They do not realize how their plans have been tried, and failed, before. Their histories do not go back that far, they have forgotten the very _why_ to their customs. They only see their own short-term pain, and so devise a permanent solution, one that will prove to cause more anguish than it could have ever solved. To leave. Go down the mountains, enter the forests. Make for the coasts. They do calculations, they write maps based off of the work of small scouting parties. _The storms do not strike the coasts!_ They are so confident, so unable to see their mistake. 

They are ignorant to the terrestrial concepts of typhoon seasons; in the high mountain sanctuary they call home, they have little knowledge of even the climatic idea of a "season". They do not know of the dangers in the stormplains below, they do not know of the hundreds of millions of people that were once just as they are. They do not know of how _dangerous that fact is_. They only see greener pastures, and do not stop for even a moment to consider; they are resolved. A scouting party leaves at the very end of summer in the lowlands, when the typhoons end. Pure chance convinces them it's safe on the stormplains. And so they strike off. They leave behind grandparents and stubborn peers, elders and leaders and role models. Their ancestral and childhood homes. Never to return, not even a single person. They leave behind their culture, their people, and become anew. They become the _Akih_. Those who endured storm and flood, those who endured famine and fire. Those who find their home amongst the scraggly plains and the sharp coasts, where Mihr itself tries its very hardest to rip them from its surface. Every summer, when typhoons thunder across the land, ripping trees from their roots and collapsing cliff sides, the Akih remain. Many places in their lands are entirely unsuitable for agriculture; the fertility has simply been stripped away after millions of violent storms, all that remains being a layer of sheer rock and the occasional supernaturally stubborn shrub. Despite all, humanity always seems to find a way to worm into where they are unwanted. Such are these people of Tekna'li Akih.

They are ruled by a mighty Imperial family situated in the coastal city of Teyuri. Their administration is tight and unwavering, for their ancestors' miscalculation has created for them an all-out struggle for survival. Their population, nearly two thousand years after they left their mountains, is truly mammoth, far into the upper bounds of ten million. However, the vast majority are lowly farmers, working to supply the Empire’s forces with food and other necessities. These farmers are themselves much beneath the Emperor, more similar to feudal servants. They're usually handled by inconsequential nobles below the right of even a true title, who are in turn handled by nobles less inconsequential and less inconsequential until you reach the Emperor. Many nobles families declare themselves a "house", which is the same in all but name to a vassal nation of the Empire. Each house typically has some kind of internal hierarchy, be it in the same structure as the Empire's, a pseudo-republic as some in the East have, or some other system; the Akih are nothing without their order. In the years after their exodus, their order became their only saving grace. In the generations that forgot about the mountains, their order became all they knew. In return for taxes and fealty, the Emperor allows noble houses near total autonomy, free to clash with their neighbors and claim land as they wish. On more than one occasion, such a house has brought fortune and fame their way by expanding the Empire's borders through conquest of the occasional smaller nation to the west or untamed wilderness to the north. It is an arrangement that benefits noble and Empire simultaneously; the nobles gain power, the Empire retains control.

Sometimes, however, this arrangement can rope the Empire into issues that shake its very foundations. Thirty years ago, a powerful house of the Empire known as Milan sought to expand their influence, and so they began attacking trade caravans passing across their borders. They hoped that these attacks would give them bargaining power to negotiate tariffs&mdash;but in their idiocy and ignorance, they did not realize that the caravans they were attacking were sent directly by the king of Thessali. The king, a man named Kinaan, saw these attacks as personal slights meant to undermine his nation's economy. Truthfully, the king had been looking for any excuse to move against the Empire. In the past three generations, Tekna'li Akih had gone from a collection of farmers that, while numerous, had no true military. This had changed starting with the Winter Reunification, a chain of events that had restored the nationalistic fervor the Akih had in times of old and duly petrified the rest of the continent. Other nations had bet on the assassination of the the Unifier to destroy this spirit&mdash;all it had done was give rise to a younger and more aggressive copy of him in the form of his son. Capitals were razed, entire peoples destroyed, in pursuit of vengeance for his slain father. The Unifier was made into a god in the eyes of men, his visage joining the likes of myth as Vakh the Explorer and Shelan of Rak. This new, sudden threat had nations _scrambling_ to reassemble their respective militaries that a long pax had allowed fall into disarray. Many did not make it before the Akih were knocking on the portcullises of their castles. But some made it, and some were saved by circumstance, like the Yin to the north of the Empire who had been saved by the large swathes of untamed swamp and marsh separating them from the Akih. One people that, rather than being saved by nature, was saved by military, were the Thessalians. Their soldiers had been better-equipped than most others in the immediate area of the Akih, and had been able to hold off the two Blitzkrieg-style charges the Akih had attempted. Diplomacy had saved them from a third advance which would have surely destroyed their over-extended and exhausted defensive forces, but simultaneously locked them into a treaty whose terms required a large tribute to be paid to the Empire every growing season. Kinaan, a rather unimpressive man who had as of yet done nothing of note for his nation, itched to prove his right to rule and stand against the Akih. However, breaking their contract would spell doom for him&mdash;there was no sane ruler on this continent that would come to the aid of an aggressor against the full force of the Akih, regardless of their ties to Thessali.

But a true attack on Thessali, in Kinaan's mind, would give his allies cause to come to his aid without exposing themselves to the Akih. Kinaan was neither a strategical nor diplomatic genius. Despite his general's advice to send an ambassador for a hearing with the Emperor, negotiating compensation for the damages accrued, Kinaan sent an expeditionary force into the Milan territories to cause havoc, with explicit orders to move quickly and loudly. They wrought true destruction upon the Milan, turning a scenic countryside into a mass grave in a mere week. The force returned in honor to Thessali, and each member was given a sizable plot of land by Kinaan himself as payment. This attack would prove to be the worst decision in Kinaan's rule, which itself would prove to be short and bitter. A message arrived in two days from the Highlord of Milan. "Payment or death" was the simple phrase the messenger recited, a man who knew very little of the Thessalian language and even less of their customs. The king laughed at him and ordered him executed in the throne hall. His head, sans body, was thrown at the feet of the Highlord. The Highlord sent word to the capital, and all was silent for nearly a month. And then a note was returned, signed by the Emperor's own hand. "Await my arrival." The Highlord mustered his troops, calling a draft amongst his citizens. When the Emperor arrived two months later, thirty thousand of his finest soldiers by his side, the Highlord himself had a standing military of nearly ten thousand. The Emperor commended the Highlord on this, and stood beside him at the funeral of the lost messenger, a great honor in the Akih culture for both Highlord and messenger. The Emperor blessed the messenger's body with the word of his grandfather the Unifier, and he and his contingent went directly to the war hall. The Empire's finest generals, two of which had been in attendance of many of the Unifier's own war plans, debated for nearly three full days until their plans were set in stone. They would break their force into two detachments, one making directly and quietly for the Thessalian capital and one to conquer the capitals of two vassal duchies bordering the Empire. The first detachment would lay siege to the capital, counting on the king's distraction with his border territory losses. Twenty-five thousand of the fourty total left for the capital, while the other fifteen marched for the first duchy.

The first duchy fell with virtually zero resistance, and after several large-scale battles with the Thessalian military, the second duchy fell as well. Kinaan's allies refused to get involved, and it seemed he was truly and utterly on his own. By the time the capital was under siege, attacker reinforcements only a week away, the Thessalians as a people were only a hairsbreadth from laying down arms and allowing the Akih into their city walls. By a week's length under siege, they did exactly that. This proved to be the wrong decision. Instead of mercy, the Akih granted them death, and burned their capital while slaughtering its occupants. Kinaan himself was chained and brought on march back to Teyuri, shown off as a war spoil before the citizens, and hung in the square. The people _loved it_. _More!_ they cried. They heralded the Emperor as a protector, as the reincarnation of his father and grandfather combined. It was as if he had cured all disease and declared himself a god; his people, their nationlism having been petering out, were suddenly reignited with the force of a million suns. _The Reunifier!_ So he began to plan. How best could he harness this new powerful tool? How best could he direct these loyal followers? After a consultation with his closest advisors, a truly masterful gambit was put in motion. He gave the word a week or so to spread to the surrounding major cities, and then made his proclamation. A new crusade was declared. 

The infidels in the west would be conquered, their temples to their twisted representations of our gods burned. We will expand our righteous Empire from the Great Sea to the Red Forests. A new age of the Akih shall be borne on _our backs_. Our children will enjoy prosperity due to _our work_. Our nation, our people, shall rise above the rest and be delivered by the gods above. We are the Akih. We are many, and we are _RIGHTEOUS._

The country rallied. Bands of recruiters began roaming the countryside, delivering the Emperor's word and collecting volunteers. In six months, the Empire's might swelled from eighty thousand to one hundred and fifty thousand strong. As the shreds of Thessali fell under the Empire's thumb, nations scrambled. Militaries were assembled, entire cultures were mobilized. Battles raged, cities fell, people died. The stench of death permeated the frontlines, and slaves were being captured in the thousands. War had suddenly and finally shattered the peace that once stagnated the continent. Beyond the crusade in the west, new wars began in the east, in the north, it seemed like war was constant and all-encompassing. Children who would have otherwise lead normal lives now often found themselves helplessly struggling for life, and many were recruited alongside adults. The end of times seemed to be here.

And yet, life went on as it always does. Battling occured nearly exclusively on the so-called "frontlines," the border of conflict between whatever militaries was occurring at any one point in time. Beyond those lines, communities still thrived. Armies had to be fed, and while breadbaskets were often the targets of attacks, most of the time, to strike at these important locations one had to conquer most of the rest of the affected nation. _This_ is where we shall begin, far beneath the grand machinations of any court, far from the center of action. Within Tekna'li Akih, a noble house called Culiph carved an estate for themselves amongst the flatlands and foothills pressed against the Stormpeaks. While one would typically assume the danger of living against the breakpoint of a typhoon to be immense, the unique geography of the Culiph estate allowed them to be mostly protected from any storm. They lived in a sort of alcove, with an extension of the Stormpeaks providing a true breakpoint to their east. This meant that, while they were still often under a storm, it was typically a rainy ridden to the true typhooon. This gave their lands a lushness that very few other locations in the flatlands enjoyed, and allowed them to have truly incredible power over the Empire's food supply. Being that the Highlord of Culiph was an old friend of the Emperor's father, he was allowed to keep this power virtually unchecked, though he didn't often push it. Regardless, this power allowed them to charge rather high prices for their goods, which allowed them to become one of the largest economic powerhouses of the Empire. A rather new expansion to their territory is the Elathm delta, the maw of the wider Elathm river that runs along and through the Stormpeaks. This allowed them to collect exorbitant tariffs on goods entering through the river. This has allowed for enough upward mobility in the house for daughter branches to be born, smaller houses that pay fealty to Culiph rather than the Empire. One of these branches is called Fal. They possess an _especially_ arable estate, even amongst the Culiph. Nearly all of their lands are acreages, with a handful of villages sprinkled between and a single city which shares the name of the branch. They specialize in a squat, robust crop called spikeweed, which has a long shelf life perfect for use in supply lines.

The Fal were extensively reliant on slave labor, expecially for spikefruit production. True farmers, though only afforded a few more rights than slaves, still required payment of some kind for their labor&mdash;this was the Emperor's law. Slaves, however, did not. They could and would be holed up in shacks too small for a single person to live comfortably often filled with ten or more slaves. They could and would be beaten and threatened to maintain work ethic. They could and would be treated as poorly, fed as poorly, as physically possible. The slaves were worked to the bone every single day without fail nor break. They were afforded naught in the way of worship nor companionship. They were well and truly keeping the war effort affloat, and each slave felt this reality every single day. Due to the committment of resources to the frontlines, slaves got less than half of what already meager sustenance they had been afforded. No soul was left unscathed; man, woman, nor child. Expectations to work interminable hours tending to crops and food now far too miniscule to sustain them came at a horrifying cost. All but the lord's favorites had become emaciated over the months of calamity, and _many_ had perished. All now worked with less vim, and not just simply because they were fatigued of the labor. Their very souls were running on fumes. This decrease in productivity, however, infuriated the lord. He saw it not as a natural consequence of his policies, but as an _affront_ to his policies. The slaves were his property, they should do what he said, regardless of their starvation! Could they not see the greater good they were serving? It was as if all common human decency evaporated when the word "slave" was thrown into the mix. And so he spared not one thought of empathy with the dead and dying working his fields. The slave caravans continued to come, and the lord's workforce continued to swell, kept in line by a militia swelling at a far less exponential rate. As long as wars were being fought, slaves were cheap. Dead slaves became replaced slaves, became dead slaves became replaced slaves. Their lives' inherent value as sentient and human was irrelevant&mdash;their sacrifice was for the greater good. In the lord's mind, at least. The slaves, rightly, did not share such a viewpoint. The callousness of their treatment was not lost on them, but many of their number were dead or dying. _All_ of their number were starving. Most of them couldn't even remember how to speak properly, let alone hold a weapon. Their situation was entirely hopeless when any resistance was compared to the fed, trained, and equipped soldiers employed by their lord. Even the young amongst them, typically much more prone to acting rashly, understood this. And so they worked. Worked under the harsh sun, pulling spikefruit from the bush and enduring the violent tempers of their overseers. Because they were nothing, they could do nothing. 

Not without a miracle.
