### Notes

Timestamp: January 30th, 2025-February 13th, 2025

Because of the poor handwriting employed in this first revision, I was unable to transcribe some words from the original manuscript. Anything marked with “????” is a word I could not decipher. I also tried my best to preserve original spacing, but it becomes difficult at times when an entire paragraph is two sentences. It doesn’t map 1:1. Footnotes are also added, whereas the original copy had no such things. There were, at one point, footnotes, but they've since been lost to time. Italics and bolding are also lost, as I've converted the format on more than one occasion.

### Content

The sun beat with ferocity down onto Cassiel’s lacerated back. It was midday, on which day he couldn’t remember, and he was working among the spikeweed. He was a slave boy, bought from pauper parents before he could speak. His master was the Lord of the land, some minor hero from a war nobody but him could remember. Granted a small march town and free reign over its operation, the man had slowly amassed wealth until his lands encompassed six towns and a central city. Agricultural goods were this area’s main export, and through diligent stewardship had become the crux of the nation’s food supply chain. But agriculture was not easy to maintain with contracted labor alone, as each wage paid cut the profit margins closer and closer. So the Lord has devised a system of costless labor. Like any meritocracy, there were many poors. The Lord took advantage of this, offering the most desperate among them a bailout; housing for life and a healthy stipend. The only price they had to pay was their strongest son.

This program was popular with many. It did not require any specific age, so many sold the smallest among their spawn, sometimes no older than twelve moons old. “Strongest” is a flexible word. There were no illusions of freedom. Each slave had one ratty straw bunk in the Hold, and got two flavorless meals a day in Mess. Until the wee hours of the night, no slave was allowed rest, their routine one of constant toil. When a slave became injured, they worked in the Lord’s kitchen, preparing meals for the guards and servants. Never the Lord himself, however, for his palette was far too refined for a mere peasant to satisfy. No, instead three renowned chefs from around the Realm cooked each of his meals, complete with spices from lands unimaginably far away. The meals were delicious. Cassiel knew this firsthand.

See, he had stepped into a snake den the moon before, splintering his shin on the touch rocks. He had been assigned to the kitchen until he was able to heal, and had spied one of the Lord’s chefs preparing a meal. The food smelled delicious, and Casiel had never tasted proper spice before. His mouth mastered and his hunger grew, but he was able to keep his composure. For three more moons, Cassiel kept his composure. But the fourth moon became more difficult, for a Highsun struck, withering much of the Lord’s crop. Without crops, the slave’s rations were cut in half. Cassiel’s stomach groaned upon smelling the Lord’s lunch. For the first hour, he ignored it, instead throwing himself into his work of slicing bluefruit.

Bluefruit is a round, cantaloupe-sized melon that grows to the West. Cassiel liked bluefruit, it had a hint of flavor, much better than the other foods the slaves were afforded. Bluefruit, Cassiel thought to himself. Bluefruit. He began murmuring it to himself, looking properly insane in the process. Unfortunately, this mantra didn’t stop him from salivating at the thought of just one bite.

No. But the plate was unattended, the chef having run off down some side corridor. Nobody would notice just one bite. Cassiel started moving unconsciously, his feet shuffling of their own accord towards his forbidden prize. His hand, as if somebody else’s, reached for the spoon. The dish was some kind of colorful soup, legumes and bits of meat floating on the surface. The spoon dipped into the stew. It slowly rose to his ???? mouth, despite Cassiel screaming at himself that this was a very bad idea. His lips wrapped around the utensil, and he took a greedy swallow. Kharam1 above, that was good. Inhibitions forgotten, Cassiel began eating with abandon, savoring every—a door at the far side of the room flew open. Cassiel dropped the spoon in surprise, splattering soup all over the table.

It was the Lord himself, no doubt come to berate one of his chefs. The old man stood frozen in the entryway, his regal face twisted first into a mask of shock, and then one of ugly, unbridled anger. Cassiel jumped and scrambled backwards, but unfortunately found himself pressed against the unyielding stone wall of the room. The guards pounced simultaneously, their hands wrapping around Cassiel’s arms and yanking him forward. Cassiel let out a strangled cry as he was tossed at the Lord’s feet. The Lord kneeled and roughly grabbed hold of Cassiel’s jaw. 

The man shouted, “How dare you! Your lowly hands do not deserve my food! Your lowly tongue does not deserve my food!” The man’s other hand cracked against Cassiel’s cheek, and stars exploded across the boy’s vision. Another cry tore from Cassiel’s throat, and the Lord released him, a disgusted grimace on his face.

“Take this whelp from my sight.”

The guards again seized Cassiel, yanking him to his feet. As they began shuffling him from the room, the Lord interjected once more. “Cut his tongue out, so he may never taste again.”

Cassiel whimpered as he was dragged the rest of the way from the room.

. . .
	
Reverie over, Cassiel again found himself in the field, the midday sun still beating down on his back. With every step he could feel the lacerations from the flogging he had received after the barber finished with his tongue. Sixty lashes, all in the course of an hour. Sixty gashes that had taken three months to even heal this much. He was extraordinarily lucky to have survived the bloodloss, much less infection. The slave physician had marvelled at Cassiel’s condition, saying that he’d seen much older men die from much less severe wounds. But the healing had left Cassiel weak, and all luxuries typically afforded to the injured had been stripped from him. Cassiel knelt next to a patch of juvenile spikeweed, cringing as the hasty sutures made by the slave physician stretched to their limit. He began weeding lethargically, pulling bits of scarabgrass and tirrac from the shade of the spikeweed plants.

Spikeweed was a hardy, ugly crop, covered in wood-like spines. It produced food in the form of a nutrient-dense bulb hanging from the bottommost tendrils. It grew in patches, ten or fifteen plants clustering together to ward off would-be herbivores. This, however, provided a good, safe area for plants suited to the shade, like tirrac and scarabgrass. These weeds provide no value to the crop, and in fact actively harm it, so the slaves assigned to the field pulled weeds for most of their day. It wasn’t terribly difficult work, but for Cassiel’s shattered body it was hell. It didn’t help that every ten minutes an overseer decided he hadn’t been berated enough, and came over to metaphorically—or physically a couple of times—beat him down. Here came one now, a short, balding man with a thick beard whose name Cassiel vaguely recalled as Raf.

“Lo, greedy kitchen boy,” the man’s voice was deep and taunting, his intentions very clear. His horse sauntered to a stop behind Cassiel’s kneeling form. “It’s disrespectful to turn your back to your betters, boy.”

Cassiel stood as quickly as his wounds allowed, the sutures screaming once again. He bowed his head to Raf, eyes cast reverently downward and shoulders appropriately slumped. He didn’t want any problems.

“You know, I’ve always wondered how the Lord’s food tastes, but I’ve never gone through with trying it. That takes true stupidity.” Cassiel’s eyes were still cast to the ground. “Well, boy? Anything to say in your defense? ‘I didn’t know it was his!’ or some other bullshit?” A mean smile crept onto the man’s face. “Oh, bother. I forgot the other half of your punishment.” A cruel laugh escaped from the man’s lips. He kicked his horse back into a trot, leaving Cassiel to his work.

Silently, he kneeled back down and kept weeding. No point getting up-in-arms, he thought, rather morosely despite the sentiment. Damn that drought. Damn my parents. Damn th–the sound of horse’s hooves startled Cassiel from his thoughts. Another? Already?

He stood again, and paled. A guard on mount, armored in leather and bearing a halberd, bore down on Cassiel. The man was clean-shaven, with close-cropped black hair and a scar splitting his bottom lip. What could one of the Lord’s guards want with him? He had been spared the executioner, and had not yet committed another infraction.

The guard pulled on his horse’s reins, slowing it to a trot. The men looked down at Cassiel’s cowering form with disgust. “Boy, you are to come with me to the Lord’s manor.”

Cassiel jolted. The manor? He made a questioning gesture with his hands, and the guard snorted derisively. “I’d forgotten. You’re missing something, ain’t you?” Cassiel looked away. The man laughed just as Raf had, cruelly and hollowly. “Tongue or not, the Lord awaits.” Questions yet unanswered, Cassiel nodded subserviently, walking alongside the guard as the man kicked his horse into a trot. The guard kept looking down at Cassiel, as if expecting him to run off. Where would I go? Cassiel thought. Into the spikeweed that’s no taller than my waist? Perhaps the guard thought him addled—his run-in with the Lord’s stew surely denoted some level of insanity. Regardless, the manor was but a short distance away. It didn’t take long for the two to enter the Lord’s gardens, many of the more privileged or favored slaves at work among the flowering trees and twisting vines. The property was surrounded by a low-lying stone wall, more to keep dust out than people.

“Boy.” the guard said, his voice low. “Stop staring at the damned flowers and move before I drag you in by the hair.”

Cassiel nodded frantically and strode to the guard’s side, his wounds groaning at the pace increasing. The imposing wooden entryway to the manor opened before them, manned by two guards in similar garb to the one escorting Cassiel. Before entering, the man dismounted from his horse, handing the reins to a waiting stableboy. Now on foot, the man was even more intimidating than Cassiel had previously thought. The man stood at what must have been twice Cassiel’s stature. His hair was brown, going grey at the edges, and his face was certainly not boyish. The halberd in his hand, whose meticulously cleaned blade was about the size of Cassiel’s head and easily as long as his forearm. It was a beastly and yet sophisticated weapon, perfect for a man who was no doubt a retired Imperial soldier. Most did not return from campaign, and he who did was a force to be reckoned with.

Cassiel swallowed nervously. He still had questions. What had he done? Why was the Lord himself dealing with it? And why wasn’t he shackled? The guard looked over at Cassiel’s fidgeting form and snorted. “I’d bet you’d be talking my ear off right about now if you could. They always have so many questions,” the man rolled his stormy eyes. “You’d think they’d have ???? it out already. No shackles, nobody but a single guard escort…you’re getting an execution. And they don’t even see you as a threat.2”

Cassiel froze. The man laughed, a low and dangerous sound. “Don’t bother running, boy. You never had a chance, but now that you’re inside the manor, you’d best pray to whatever silly slave god you believe in and put your head on the block.”

Tears welled up in Cassiel’s eyes. The man tsked. “Do it with dignity, kid.” He strode over and grabbed Cassiel by his tattered collar, hauling him forward the rest of the way to the Lord’s chamber3. The guard pushed open the heavyset door, and showed Cassiel through first. “My Lord,” the guard said. “I’ve retrieved the boy.”

The Lord gazed lazily4 down at Cassiel, whose legs had given out when he was shoved.

“Why is the whelp weeping?” the old man asked.

The guard kicked at Cassiel’s back, not a particularly hard blow, but a strangled cry rose from Cassiel’s throat as his sutures popped and cracked. “As you see, he is injured, my Lord,” he briefly paused. “And he is but a boy. The papers say he was bought not yet fifteen harvests ago.”

The Lord made an interested noise and leaned forward. “So young?’

“Yes, my Lord.”

“What a troubled soul for such a new body.”

Cassiel looked up, confused through his tears. The Lord’s face was twisted into a barely-contained mask of fury.5 Oh, Kharam1 above. Fresh tears welled into Cassiel’s eyes. He truly was to die here. The Lord’s face was split by a devilish smile. “Oh, yes, boy. You know exactly what you have done. But pity will not save you now.”

He misunderstands my sorrow, Cassiel realized. He thinks I am begging for mercy for a crime I did not commit. That I weep for a slight I do not even know the nature of. Cassiel raised his face to the Lord, wiping his tears from his face. A brief expression of surprise crossed the Lord’s face, as if he didn’t expect Cassiel’s sniveling form to even have the will to lift its head, much less make eye contact.

“And so the true beast rears its head,” the Lord said, briefly baring his teeth in anger. “A remorseless, spoiled Realmthing. Perhaps I have given the slaves too much leniency, if their ranks produced a monster of this caliber. I should have executed you for your previous slight, perhaps I may have done better by my daughter.”

Daughter? Cassiel thought.

A girl suddenly took her place next to the Lord. She was a plain creature, straight brown hair and no defining features. To be candid, this was the first woman Cassiel had ever seen without the boundless scars that accompanied slavehood. Tear tracks were visible on her face, just beginning to dry. Cassiel cocked his head. What problem could he possibly have had with this girl, who looked no more than seventeen harvests old? The Lord put his hand around the girl’s shoulders, a startlingly paternal gesture for a man who owned hundreds of slaves.

“Yes, my blossom, I apologize deeply. That I might have saved you from the harassment of this beast tears my heart into slivers.”

Cassiel’s face went pale. What?

The girl put her head to the Lord’s shoulder. “Please, father, take him away! I loathe to see his face any longer.”

“Of course, my sweetvine. Boy, your crimes against my family are now too great to grant mercy. Vahl, end his madness.”

The guardsman who had escorted Cassiel took a step forward and grabbed his hair. The man pulled, baring Cassiel’s neck. The blade of the guard’s halberd pressed against Cassiel’s neck, biting  into the skin. Cassiel felt a line of blood form and began dripping. This is it. The girl—the Lord’s daughter—went pale. She looked like she was about to interject, perhaps argue for a reduction of punishment, but finally bit her lip and hid her face in her father’s shoulder. Cassiel was not a hateful boy. But in that moment, he hated. With his whole body, he burned to jump forward and tear that girl from the ????. To scream, to shout, to utter any word of objection. But instead, all that came from his lips was a choked gurgle. Tears, again, pricked at his eyes. Cassiel felt Vahl go tense, preparing for the killing strike. But just in the nick of time, a shout came from the entryway behind Cassiel.

“My lord! The peasants march on the manor! They have demands!”

The Lord made an annoyed noise. “And why must this interrupt? Simply deal with them, as we always have!”

“My Lord…they are hundreds strong. Maybe thousands.”

Another annoyed noise. “Yaezim6 above. Send a messenger. I will meet them at the Ridge.”

The man left the room, and the Lord refocused on Cassiel. “Vahl, I have a better idea for this one. Bring him down to the Torturer’s cells. We have not given him a new plaything in a while.”

“Yes, my Lord,” Vahl said. He yanked Cassiel to his feet.

“????,” the Lord said as Vahl pushed Cassiel from the room, “Rally the rest of the guardsmen. We will need intimidation to put down these would-be usurpers.”

Cassiel did not understand his fate. “Torturer” was not a word he knew. Was he to be held in detention? Preferable to execution, but not by much. Vahl, however, chuckled.

“Shouldn’t have fucked around with that girl. I know you didn’t do anything to her, but this was inevitable; you two’s little fraternization would eventually be found out, and to save face she’d blame it on you coercing her.7”

Cassiel made a desperate gesture. Why do you not intervene?

Vahl chucked again. “Boy, I may be getting old, but I have not yet gone senile. The Lord, in all his fury, would have even a lifelong friend such as myself executed for implying his daughter a liar.”

Cassiel seethed. Coward.

Vahl swung open a nondescript door in the wall and ushered Cassiel inside. Beyond laid a dark and dingy staircase, obviously rarely traversed. Cassiel stood for a moment, and Vahl shoved him ????. “I do not have all day.”

Cassiel took the first step, stone crunching beneath his feet. This place was…eerie. Its silence was oppressive, as if even the air was holding its breath, awaiting some kind of tragedy to occur. Cassiel began to fear what would wait for him at the bottom. Vahl tapped his fingers nervously on the hilt of his halberd, his own unease betrayed. The stars seemed to stretch on and on, it wasn’t long before Cassiel began to shiver. The braziers that lined the walls began to, almost dim as their depth increased. Finally, the staircase ended, and Cassiel beheld a room of horrors. Instruments lined the walls, all providing their own personal way to crack a person open and get out the bits inside. The blood drained from Cassiel’s face. A scream pierced the air, and both Cassiel and Vahl’s heads snapped to the right. A woman, her dark complexion nearly entirely hidden by the blood streaking her skin, was strapped to a chair. A man knelt before her, an instrument of some kind dripping red in his hands. His own eyes were locked on Cassiel. They were a piercing green, an animalistic hunger reflected in them.

His voice echoed around the room, much higher than one would expect. “A new toy? Vahl, you shouldn’t have!” He stood, and in one fluid motion stabbed his tool into the woman’s throat as if she was nothing but livestock. Vahl swallowed.

“Yes, Raez. A new toy.”

“This one’s crime? I do so love a kindred soul.”

“A relationship with Mahi’s daughter.”

“Poor sap,” the man said, striding over until he was just in front of Cassiel. He roughly grabbed Cassiel’s jaw, inspecting him in the firelight. “So young, and yet already used?”
	
“This one had a record,” Vahl said.
	
“Ah. Well, I appreciate it nonetheless. Now, Vahl, shoo. I must show our new guest my…hospitality.”
	
Vahl swallowed again. “Try to go easy on this one. His only crime was one of love, and he is barely fifteen harvests old.”
	
The man tsked. “Now, Vahl, you know full well I’m the Torturer. I get paid to do exactly one thing for the good Mahi upstairs: deal with those he would rather not have to.” He licked his lips, predatory and dangerous. “And this one, used as he may be, will be punished. Now, Vahl, take your leave. I know you haven’t the stomach for this sort of work.”
	
Vahl nodded, and though Cassiel’s back was turned he could hear the nervousness in his voice. “Yes, Raez. Enjoy.”
	
A terrifying smile came to Raez’s face. “Oh, trust me, I will.”
	
There had been many places where Cassiel had thought he would die today. But in this dingy room, dried blood streaking the walls and a murdered woman tied to a chair in the corner, he knew. This place spelled his death. Every instrument in this room was designed to rip from him body and soul. He would die here. Alone, forgotten. Powerless to stop his fate. For a brief moment, Cassiel considered trying to escape. Rushing up those stairs after Vahl, pushing him to the floor. Stealing his blade, making a break for the wilderness. But one single look at the man called Raez and all thoughts of running were dispelled. He had, at some point, grabbed shackles. He held them out silently, and Cassiel acquiesced, snapping the metal bonds onto his wrists with a click.
	
Raez licked his lips. “Oh, I do so love when my guests are obedient. Makes it much easier, doesn't it? Now, son, what's your name?”
	
Cassiel, obviously, couldn't respond. He tried gesturing, but the shackles restricted him. Cassiel opened his mouth instead. Raez’s face darkened, and his eyes flashed9. "Mahi, you bastard." He grabbed Cassiel’s jaw roughly, positioning it into the firelight  for a better look. He made a dissatisfied noise  and slammed his fist onto a nearby table. "Damn it! How am I supposed to be the Torturer if all Mahi gives me are broken toys?” Raez pushed Cassiel against the wall, and in an instant stabbed a strongly red-sheened blade through his shoulder and into the wall. Cassiel screamed, a horrific, grating noise that only served to put a smile on Raez’s face.
	
“Ah, broken but not quite useless,” he said. “You can still sing as well as anyone else, son. Perhaps I can wait a little longer to complain.”

Kharam help me, Cassiel thought, a haze of pain clouding his vision. Any Angel above… But Cassiel knew no intervention, divine or otherwise, was to save him now. He was well and truly alone. Cassiel felt the blood flowing freely from his shoulder, a puddle no doubt forming on the floor. The wound was cold, starkly unlike the searing gashes from the whip. In fact, it grew colder by the moment. The blade, Cassiel realized, the blade is leeching my essence. How, exactly, Cassiel had no idea. But whatever process was occurring enthralled Raez. His face was lit up, eyes trained on the blade.

“Perhaps not broken after all…” Raez breathed. He made eye contact with Cassiel, whose eyes still spilled over with salty tears. “You’re truly a special one, huh? I neglected to check which blade I had picked up, and stabbed you through with Akha’li10. Not that I expect you to know anything about the Harbingers’ blades11, what with Mahi’s unique form of…education.”

Cassiel wasn’t even comprehending Raez’s words anymore. The cold had crept up his shoulder now, and it felt like he was swimming through his own mind. Raez took notice and tsked.

“Special, sure, but still young. Yet to develop.”

He ripped the blade from Cassiel’s shoulder. Another scream tore from the boy’s throat, and he collapsed to the floor.

“Oh, come now. Don’t break so early, son,” Raez knelt, pressing his hands to Cassiel’s shoulder, eliciting a staccato gasp of pain. But as the pressure increased, the pain faded. The cold receded and was instead replaced with a dull throb. “There you go. Better, ain’t it?” Raez stood, but instead of giving Cassiel a moment to recover, he dragged the boy to his feet. “Now—”

A scream came from the stairwell. Raez’s ears pulled back like a cat, and his head whipped around. After a moment of silence, another scream came, and then another, and then another, and then another. Raez’s pupils were blown out now, and he licked his lips predatorily. “I don’t usually do this, but…” He turned back to Cassiel. “I’ll return to you in a moment, son, but with your strength returning…” He dragged Cassiel over to a bar attached to the wall, seemingly for this exact scenario. A pair of shackles, no doubt belonging to the now-dead woman in the chair, hung from the bar. Raez took the hanging shackles and hooked them onto Cassiel’s own. Cassiel was in no state to resist, still reeling from, well, all that had happened today.

Raez took a step back and spun on his heel, making his way towards the stairwell. As Cassiel lay, hands fastened to a bar above his head and back oozing blood from freshly-reopened wounds, Casseil couldn’t help feeling sorry for himself. The life he had lead before now had not been one of luxury, but in the span of a few months, even the meager things he did have were ripped from him.

“So young.” That’s what everyone kept saying. My, only fifteen harvests? Was he truly so young? Cassiel looked down at his exposed stomach and legs. Scars marred nearly every inch, jagged reminders of lessons learned. He was not a tall boy, his poor diet a likely culprit. But he was toned. Both physically and mentally. Screams continued to echo down the stairwell, but Cassiel’s fading mind dismissed them entirely. Whatever it was would either affect him or not, and nothing his feeble and bound body was able to do could change that. Something, somewhere, deep inside him was terrified. Terrified that he was dying, or worse yet, might wake up.