Not Yet Fifteen

Shade was a luxury in the farmlands outside Fal. There were no trees, no shrubs, and no pavilions. Not even a tarp; just the wide, open sections of different crops. The dirt was a distinctive reddish-orange, and it was littered with small stones. The city the farms ringed, Fal, was a designated agricultural estate, chosen by the Emperor as one of many origins for supply lines leading out West. At the end of the lines was war, war on a scale unimaginable to the people of this humble city. Because of the importance of the supply lines in wars so large, Fal needed to grow crops that would survive the journey. Typical vegetables would rot, and so Fal turned to crops from the South, built to withstand heat and time. The forefront of these crops, the major export of Fal, was a squat, hardy plant called spikeweed. Spikeweed grew on bushes, about waist-high, and in accordance with its name grew spikes on both fruit and stem. Spikeweed was a hardy plant, but its harvest was difficult on account of the spines. This made labor requirements intensive, but nearly all working-age men had been shipped off to the front lines. This made the task of supplying the armies ouroboric; all the men were gone, but they needed manpower to harvest crops. In the beginning, the womenfolk were made of use, as by law of the Emperor they could not serve in the military, but caring for children and short supply of non-craftsman women quickly made the effort falter. So, instead, another labor force was acquired. Slavery. Slaves were _pouring_ in from the frontlines, and many had them working in their homes. These house slaves, however, were protected under Empire law. They could not be pressed into agriculture&mdash;that was not their purpose. So a new class of slaves was invented; the farmslaves. The farmslaves of Fal were not protected under any law. They were not given the accommodations that house slaves were given, in fact they were given no accommodations at all. They were to work, in the place where even shade was a luxury, until they died of overexertion. No sooner would they escape the fields. Their existence was one of completely helpless futility. One might imagine that hungry slaves-become-farmers may eat their crop. One might imagine that, when the overseers' backs were turned, a desperate slave might eat a spikefruit, spikes and all. In that case, one must also imagine said slave dead in the fields, body having been ravaged by the terrible poison in each spikefruit, only neutralized by cookfires that no farmslave had access to. And so, the Fal ran their acreages entirely by slave labor. Sectional overseers acted as managers over a wider workforce of paid overseers, each sectional controlling anywhere from a hundred to a hundred and fifty overseers. There were fifteen slaves per overseer. Each overseer was a member of the Fal militia, those men whom had training but little skill, and were hoping to get even the smallest modicum of acclaim so they could be shipped off to the frontlines for real glory. Despite their position being awarded based off incompetence, their position was one of admiration amongst the Fal citizens. As little boys grew, they often joined the militia before being sent to the frontlines. When they returned, and had children of their own, the cycle repeated. Their admiration was because of the perceived "tide" they held back; slavery was considered a dirty necessity by and large in the Empire, and Fal was no different. The farmslaves had were strictly forbidden from entering the city proper, and this policy gave the city administrators free range over fearmongering; they had convinced the populace that the farmslaves were rowdy and violent, and that the overseers were valiant protectors of "civility."

As for the farmslaves, they were only to speak when spoken to, only to look where asked to look. They were not to question, not to learn. Not to want, or to need. Their place in the word was decided, the overseers told them, and until the gods see fit for their release, they are to work. While house slaves, as a rule, had servants' quarters to retreat to when their duties were completed for the day, farm slaves did not. There _was_ no end to their work, so they were forced to be out in the fields until their overseers said otherwise. Sometimes, if a slave was to be punished, the entire workforce was to stay outside alongside them. Only once the overseers decided it to be so could slaves return to their barracks, a collection of shoddy wooden boxes that held somewhere between fifteen and twenty slaves at once. While house slaves had rights under the law as pseudo-citizens; they could not be killed arbitrarily, they could not be forced to work through injury. House slaves were entitled to a working wage by their owner, and pay could not be docked without verifiable reason. Any farmslave would _kill_ for the same opportunities, the same rights. There were no laws governing the treatment of farmslaves. They were to work under the harsh sun, work through rain and work through storm. Tending to crops, planting crops, harvesting crops. They were at the whims of their overseers, and above that the sectional overseers. One such man was Mahi Fal, a sectional overseer who somehow still managed to be completely irrelevant and inconsequential. He had little in the way of martial talent nor battlefield accredit, and he saw this as a great slight against him by the universe. He took this percieved slight out on every slave under his purview. Cassiel, a boy of not yet even fifteen harvests old, was one such slave. Cassiel had been raised by slave parents, who themselves had come from a line of slaves stretching into deep antiquity. Those parents, however, were long gone, though Cassiel could not remember what happened to them, and did not try to. His memory, these days, often wavered, and sometimes everything but his basest survival instincts eluded him entirely. This was by design. The autopilot allowed him to place a barrier between his sanity and his reality, a reality that, as a farmslave, was very, very far from friendly. They enough water to operate and no more, and their already-meager rations had been cut in half on account of the wars out West. Their overseers, employees of Mahi Fal, were liberal with whipping and beating those they saw as insubordinate. At first, years ago, Cassiel's removal from this reality had been a coping mechanism, though for what he could not remember. Nowadays, it was his _survival_ mechanism. His body, far smaller than any boy's his age had any right to be, ran exclusively on autopilot, any time he was conscious. A comforting barrier of grey covered all but what he functionally needed, and the ache of his malnourished muscles faded to numbness as his brain ground to a halt. And so, without thought, Cassiel was quiet, docile, meek. _Silent_. He did what was asked of him, no more, no less. He followed orders, no more, no less. Standing out would get him beaten. He was invisible. It kept him safe&mdash;while others were whipped bloody or hanged for infractions that deserved no such punishment, overseers typically barely acknowledged Cassiel. Typically. Even despite his docility, Cassiel still had far more than his fair share of scars, jagged reminders of terrible lessons burned into his very soul. Every movement rubbed his shredded tunic and threadbare breeches against the ever-so-slightly raised lines marring his olive skin. Each step reminded his clouded consciousness of twists and sprains gone untended, of callousness and carelessness gone hand-in-hand. Cassiel did not look his age. No, he did not look his age. His hands and feet were calloused, Cassiel could not remember ever having proper shoes. His haphazardly-shorn hair hung limp around his head in a sort of matted mop. His posture was slouched, subservient, and careful, each step carried out lightly, as if the ground would bite at him. Each sound made him subconsciously tense. No, Cassiel did not look "yet fifteen harvests old."

He knelt down beside a spikeweed plant, the pose creating a new kind of muted pain in his calves&mdash;not that Cassiel paid it any heed. His movements were robotic, each fruit picked from the bush evenly and carefully. A few of the plant’s barbs dug into the back of Cassiel's hand, and blood started leaking from the cuts. His rhythm did not break. Cassiel's hand wrapped around one of the spikefruit, a particularly ripe one. Its flesh was a sickly green, and it was bulbous in shape. Small spines were positioned in horizontal rings, which meant there was a very particular way you had to grab the fruit in order to not get pierced. All four fingers had to be splayed out between the rings, and the thumb had to rest carefully against the bottom of the fruit, which had one large barb instead of many tiny ones. Spikeweed was not what most would choose as their first option for produce, but it had a property that made it incredibly good for slave-driven agriculture; spikefruit killed unless cooked. It prevented slaves from just eating that which they harvested, and as such, protected the bottom line. The slaves were made very aware of this, but that didn’t stop some desperate souls from trying periodically. Their bodies were left in the fields to rot, labor costs to remove them not truly worth it in the minds of the overseers. It wasn’t uncommon to come across a bleached skull or shard of femur lodged in a thicket of crop, though most remnants were blown away during storms. Cassiel, like every other slave in the fields, carried a small woven basket, no doubt handmade by another group of slaves. This basket could hold about thirty fruit, usually enough to collect the fruit of about forty plants during any one pass during peak harvesting season. The drought, however, had changed this starkly. It had been _seventy_ plants since the last time Cassiel had emptied his basket. This produced endless anger among the overseers. The overseers themselves would be punished if the slaves did not produce a set quota under them, a policy which always seemed to trickle down violently to the slaves themselves. There always must be someone for them to blame, someone to hurt. The slaves knew this; there was no arguing with the overseers, that got you hanged. A good slave simply tried not to get in their way. 

_A good slave_. If words had the capacity to be evil, there were none so vile as those. There was not any such thing, in any sane reality, as a good slave. To be a slave was to have your innate being stolen, to be forced to do truly horrific things in the name of your lord. To work yourself to the bone, to work yourself to death, because there were punishments so far removed from imagination that even death seemed a kindness. Goodness had no bearing on it; you carried out your tasks. That was your place, and any attempt to challenge this quo ends in a corpse. A "good slave" was one who worked himself to the bone, through fire and brimstone, through famine and futility. Someone, beyond that, who took the blame. One who could be blamed when the harvest failed. Someone who _died well_. A violent pounding suddenly began in Cassiel's head, a sensation much worse than the ever-present headache that accompanied his dehydration. He tried to ignore it, retracting even further into his comforting haze, surrendering even more of his consciousness. It worked, for a few moments. The fog muted all emotions, all hurting, and, most importantly, all memories. Slowly, the muscles Cassiel had not even meant to tense relaxed. He continued picking spikefruit. Methodic, robotic, silent. Rustling stems were the only noise as Cassiel reached for fruit that seemed to be retreating into the shade of its plant under the harsh sun. Loose pebbles and dead stems littered the ground beneath him, crunching as he walked. In his early youth, the sound would have delighted Cassiel. Instead, Cassiel's eyes were unfocused, completely glazed over, he had well and truly retreated from his own mind. He was piloted by muscle memory and a skeleton crew of thought, just enough to move his body. Indeed, he was so removed from himself that when an overseer tromped up, whip coiled in one hand, Cassiel didn't react, just kept picking. When the overseer barked an order to kneel, Cassiel just kept picking. When the overseer called out again, growing angry, Cassiel just kept picking. Finally, the slimy man put his hand on Cassiel's shoulder. In the space of an instant, Cassiel's haze was burned away. The smell of fire screamed for attention as if a siren. His rhythm shattered, and a searing heat pressed against the back of his eyes. 

_Fire, an inferno that consumed the shoddy wooden barracks. Blood, a trail leading to the barred front door. An iron lock that the small fingers of a child found no purchase on. The desperate screams of a wife, the flailing of small limbs, the smell of singed flesh as a brand was pressed into a small chest. His chest. BLOODSIN._ 

No. No, no, no, _NO_. That wasn't how it had happened, his father had done something, something evil. That's what the overseers said, that's why the overseers branded him. They had burned his father for his crimes, it was justice, it was justice!&mdash;but no. It wasn't. Cassiel's father hadn't done anything but be human. His father had been as good a man as his circumstances allowed. His father had simply spoken up for another slave during a senseless beating. It was brash, but his father just hadn't been able to take the cruelty any longer. For that crime, the crime of empathy, the crime of compassion, his home became his funeral pyre. His child was branded Bloodsin. For the crime of humanity, he had been sentenced to death. There had been no&hellip;justice&hellip; Cassiel stared at his calloused hands, and the woven basket in them. His haze was gone, all comfort stripped, the dark, hideous reality of his life staring him in the face. Cassiel was quiet for a moment, his mouth working silently. The overseer still stood, mouth agape in a yell Cassiel could not hear. Time had slowed to an utter standstill. Everything was slow, and then the wind began to pick up and the sun was covered by a cloud and feeling of his basket was too much and his body hurt and his mother was gone and Cassiel _broke_. A strangled scream tore from his throat, as if that of a wounded animal in its death throes. Fire. Blood. An iron lock. _The_ iron lock. _His_ failure. That night, Cassiel couldn't _do_ anything. He was too small, too weak. He couldn't save them. Why didn't they kill him alongside his parents? Why did they let him live? Oh, gods above, _WHY DID THEY LET HIM LIVE?_ That lock, twisting, clicking, always _clicking_. A constant reminder, a constant drone in the very back of Cassiel's mind, a constant reminder that made him _shake_ and _retch_ and _remember_. Cassiel shook, like a leaf holding to its branch for dear life. The overseer was still yelling, time as thick as molasses. _He needed to get ahold of himself._ Bring back the grey haze. Bring back the white noise that bled over all others, hiding the lock and hiding the thoughts and hiding the feelings just out of reach. Always out of reach. For his safety. For his safety.

_The fire raged. Cassiel, his hands much smaller than he remembered, his stature much shorter, shrieked. He sprinted for the door, sprinted for the three men barring it. But a woman grabbed at his tunic. "Cas, no! Stay back! For your safety!"_

_For your safety. For your safety._

Cassiel's woven basket finally tumbled from his shaking hands. He watched it, with a very strange sort of detached disinterest, as it collided with the ground. A new streak of dirt was left on one side, and the fruit spilled onto the ground what felt like a continent away. All seemed to stand still. The terror faded, for the briefest moment. The guilty pit in his stomach, his shame at being unable to help his family, released. For the barest hint of a moment, Cassiel felt the wind carve a space around him. Even the sun seemed to take a bow. And then, violently, it all came crashing back down. The overseer was screaming, cursing, one of the fallen spikefruit had collided with his foot. The man raised a hand to strike Cassiel across the face, white-hot fury in his eyes. Cassiel paid him exactly zero heed; his entire body felt as if the skin was being peeled away slowly, over and over as his brain tried its hardest to keep up. The sensations soon overwhelmed him, and his mind desperately pulled him back into the night of his parent's death. Remembrance was agony, but feeling was death. Time crawled to a halt, and Cassiel was back by the barracks, his small, frail, child self held back by his mother. He screamed at the men, demanding that they release his father, cursing them all to the deepest craters of damnation. The men looked back at him, staring for one incredulous moment, and then they laughed. Vicious, predatory smiles stalked towards him, and his yells died in his throat. Cassiel found himself pressing back into his mother's chest as the men got closer. They were all still smiling, those terrible, toothy smiles, showing off browned and blackened teeth surely about to fall from their heads. All three smelled intensely of alcohol. One of them grabbed Cassiel, pulling him from his now-pleading mother. That smell of alcohol had never been stronger, choking out all other senses. One of the men slapped Cassiel across the face, saying something Cassiel couldn't quite make out. His mother shrieked, trying to force her way to him. It was as if all sound was muted, as if Cassiel was underwater. The only thing he could hear clearly was his mother's scream as she was thrown to the ground, the fire her husband died in not five paces from her. One of the men pushed his boot into her throat, slurring something threatening. She just kept trying to crawl towards Cassiel. The drunk man spoke again, this time more angry, pushing his boot harder into her throat. 

Fire. Blood. An iron lock. One last awful, pleading scream as all he ever knew disappeared before his eyes. A horrible, vile choking as a boot pressed harder down onto a thin throat. And as the blow from the overseer finally landed outside the memory, cracking across Cassiel's face, he heard one last struggling gasp and a final crunch. A whimper as the his last family died like a dog. A body, olive skin like Cassiel's, lying in the dirt, her clothes covered in dust. Tears still running down her face, though her eyes stared sightlessly into the sun above. Hair splayed out behind her, matted and tangled. Silence fell for the briefest of moments, and then there was cruel, disgusting laughter. Laughter that became part of the background track in Cassiel's mind, the drone that consumed all. The cries of a little boy, held back in one hand, powerless to break free. Cassiel pressed his hands to his eyes, which had begun to weep. Hands far too scarred for a boy so young became covered in tears far too justified. The overseer sneered, uncoiling his whip to strike this errant slave. He pressed harder and _harder_, trying to block out the harsh sunlight. Trying to block out the memory, the smell. Trying to block out the death, the sorrow. Trying to block out those three men, their laughs and the way they held him from even running to his freshly-slain mother's side. A true, inhuman shriek came from somewhere deep inside Cassiel. The terror he had suppressed and forced down endlessly for nearly a decade suddenly _exploded_ to the surface. His fingers, their nails cracked and dirty, sliced through his own face as if paper, leaving leaking wells of red that ran like rivers. The tears and the blood became mixed, dripping to the ground and staining the dirt. It felt as if every fiber of his being was being rent apart, as if a million million hammers were striking his skull at once. Again and again and again.

_One last word escaped her lips as the boot pressed down. Cassiel&hellip;_

Cassiel's eyes, at long last, flew open. But they were _wrong_, unseeing and cold in the way they regarded the world. His irises were circled in an orange-red, as if copper wire ran through them. His pupils dilated and contracted wildly, as if he was having a seizure. The overseer dropped his whip, mouth agape as he regarded this new creature in front of him. Cassiel grabbed the him by the neck. In this scum, Cassiel saw the three men who had taken everything from him. Those men who had stolen his family. Those men who had _ruined it all_. Those men who had _DENIED HIM JUSTICE_. In the overseer, Cassiel saw a chance to rectify that which was taken from him. In the overseer, Cassiel saw a chance for revenge. In the overseer, Cassiel saw a man given far, far too many second chances. People may change, but some never do. This one, he decided, never would. He gripped the man's neck tighter, strength that made absolutely no logical sense forcing the overseer to choke and gasp in an attempt to pull in air. A terrible smile came to Cassiel's lips, baring his teeth in a manner almost primal. He kept gripping tighter and tighter. This was retribution. The overseer looked into the eyes of the angel of death, and it was a scarred and starving little boy of not even fifteen. The Angel opened His mouth, and a voice that was not His came from His throat.

"THERE WILL BE NO MORE SECOND CHANCES."

A terror ensued in the man's mind. He struggled, trying to pry the boy's hands off his neck. When he realized it was futile, he began to weep. He tried to plead with his eyes as the edges of his vision began to darken. Cassiel gripped tighter. He pathetically gasped, trying desperately to draw in breath. Cassiel gripped tighter. Twisting sanguine lines had begun to form from the blood dripping down Cassiel's face, quickly becoming the same orange-red as his eyes. The lines snaked down his neck, arms, legs, forming into a network that seemed to radiate from his heart, though the blood was supplied from his face. The long-ruined fabric of his tunic finally gave way, and its shreds dropped to his feet, just in time to see the blood-substance filling in the brand on his chest. A single glyph, a droplet with a diamond in the center. A mark of crime, a mark of _sin_. A mark of lineage.

"BLOODSIN. YOU NAME ME _BLOODSIN_."

This time, the voice was a blend of Cassiel's and the _other_. There was great maelstrom of anger in the voice. As the blood touched the brand, it became thicker and almost iridescent, as if becoming a superset of what it once was. The lines of the substance twitched and writhed as they continued to grow, working themselves into the archaic glyphs of a language that was long, long forgotten. There were ten, not counting the glyph branded into his chest. One on each bicep, one on each calf, one on his neck, two on his back, and a final three that ringed the Bloodsin glyph. Each line was a very slightly different shade, some erring closer to red while others closer to orange. The difference between all were largely imperceptible to the naked eye. As the final few blood-glyphs grew close to termination, Cassiel's body began to shake. Every single muscle tensed and relaxed at sporadic intervals, as if his very soul was fighting desperately to keep itself in one piece. Atrophied tendons flexed as if mustering one last burst of strength; as if the death of a supernova playing out in real time. Blood began to seep through Cassiel’s lips, and a staccato gasp shook his small body. In a final burst of strength, he snapped the overseer's neck, and let the man fall. He was much less imposing on the ground, an expression of pain and anguish on his face, pitiful tears still welled in now-glazed eyes. As Cassiel shook under the immense power of whatever granted him his sudden strength, the _other_ voice spoke again. 

_YOU ARE NOT READY._

A sudden, wracking cough brought the whole ordeal to a concise halt. The ancient glyphs faded and Cassiel's body's last vestiges of strength failed completely. His legs' fortitude finally ran dry, and he collapsed. Laying in the dirt and the pebbles, fallen spikeweed spines digging into his flesh, his eyes fell shut, the sun beating on his small body. The last thing he could smell was dust. And then, he was still, still as death.

Fire. Blood. An iron lock.

_Click. Click. Click._

+

Cassiel woke to the sound of metal scraping on stone. His body was weak, indeed so weak that for a moment he felt as if he couldn’t even breathe. The metal clanking noise grew quieter, as if moving away, and after a few moments Cassiel caught his breath enough to take inventory of the rest of his body. His face felt tight, as if covered in a layer of dried mud, and a terrible cold radiated from the center of his chest. The world before him swam and wavered, as if unbearably hot&mdash;but Cassiel was shivering. He looked up, neck joints popping and crackling, and saw his hands shackled to an iron bar, itself bolted into a wall of strong brown granite. Cassiel stared dully at the bar for a moment. _Where&hellip;?_ He felt different, as if something had been taken from him. Or given to him? There were so many thoughts and emotions whirling around in his head, and he couldn’t make sense of a single one. It was all so overwhelming, it felt as if he were a deaf man hearing the cacophony of a city for the first time. He felt things, he thought things, he was _himself_. Cassiel focused on lifting his foot from the ground, and it actually did what he asked. This shouldn't have surprised him, but for the first time in a long, long time, his body was his. There was no grey haze. It felt _freeing_. But as his brain began to spin to life, all was not so enthralling. Without the comforting barrier of indifference, the back of his mind churned, and horrifying memories clawed their way past guard posts gone unmanned. Terror began to rise in his throat, and Cassiel tried to push it down. A trick of the light, surely, but Cassiel could swear that there was the faintest afterimage of twisting red lines just beneath his skin. But a cough wracked his body, a small spatter of blood soaking into his soiled tunic, and the markings were gone. Despite no visible source, an awful draft cut through him, sending Cassiel into a bout of shivering that refused to abate.

Suddenly, a voice cut through his fit. “Father above, you’re going to die before the guards even return. Not that I would blame you, of course. Seems you’ve been through quite an ordeal.”

Cassiel’s head snapped to the right, a spear of pain at the sudden movement eliciting an involuntary groan of pain.

“Careful now.” The man was tall, and his skin was dark, much darker than Cassiel’s. He was likely a traveler from far further South&mdash;they got them every once in a while, though in these days of conflict they were becoming less common. He was completely bald, and his eyes were a stormy grey that somehow seemed to crackle like stormclouds when he looked at you. His cheekbones were high and his expression imposing. He wore strange clothes, of woven beige fabric adorned with hundreds of small green crystals. A glyph in a language unknown to Cassiel was painted on his chest. The symbol was green, its shade exactly matching his crystals. But the strangest thing of all was that the man was not bound. Neither in chain nor even rope; he was simply sitting against the wall, legs crossed and hands folded.

“W&mdash;” Cassiel’s voice broke, not even allowing him to speak a single full word. He swallowed hard, ignoring the stabbing pain in his throat, and tried to continue. “Are you?” He degenerated into a coughing fit, his body shaking as more blood spattered onto his chest.
	
The man _tsked_. “That is quite concerning. I would bet money on a collapsed lung, at the very least.”
	
As his coughing fit subsided, Cassiel gestured with his hands, trying to prompt an answer from the man. He just chuckled.

“A man. A man from far, far away.” The man studied Cassiel, seemingly waiting for something.

“Why am I&hellip;here?” Cassiel managed to get out. His memory of what had happened before waking up here was wavy at best. All he remembered was a horrible pain, and an awful, inhuman screaming.

“They say you killed an overseer,” the man replied, the barest hint of a smile on his face.

Cassiel blanched. “W&mdash;” his voice broke. “What?”

The man’s extraordinarily perfect white teeth peeked through his now full-fledged grin. “Yes. In the fields. A bastard named Raf, they say.”

Cassiel paled further. He knew exactly what awaited him for the killing of an overseer; a public hanging. He had been forced to watch others hang as an example. _Nammael grant me strength&hellip;_

The man hissed as if in pain. “Do _not_ speak His name here. I will not have His utterance sullied within such a vile place.”

_Speak? He hadn’t said anything out loud._ Cassiel suddenly noticed something. During the brief time they had been talking, the man had begun to change. His skin had turned almost translucent, to the point that the edges of his fingertips were all but invisible. The previously vibrant green crystals hanging from his clothes seemed to be growing dun, lifeless. The man noticed Cassiel’s staring and smiled again, though the gesture seemed to be weaker than it had before. Cassiel opened his mouth to speak, to ask the question that had been weighing on his mind since he had first caught a glimpse of the man. _What are you?_

Before he could speak any words, though, both of them were distracted by a metallic clanking against stone, getting louder by the moment. The man made an annoyed noise, and turned his head back to Cassiel. “All questions will be answered in time. I have been here far too long already.” He stood in a fluid motion and strode over to Cassiel’s limp body, chained to the wall, and knelt. He pressed three fingers to the center of Cassiel’s chest, where that terrible cold still radiated from. “You must find the path. You must remember. You must understand. And when you return to us, you must join our cause. You must see our reason. _You_ are our only hope.”

As the clanking grew ever closer, the man flashed Cassiel one last grin and disappeared. Completely and utterly, in a single blink of the eye. The cell was empty once more, filled only by Cassiel bound to the wall in chains. A new voice came from outside the cell, accompanied by a resounding clang on the bars. “Rise and shine, little usurper.”

A man of average height and sturdy build stood on the other side of the cell bars. He was dressed in fine armor, silver metal plates armoring his shoulders, forearms, and thighs, while tough leather covered the rest. He wore, curiously, high-quality sabatons, interlocking sheets of shining metal providing him with simultaneous mobility and protection. Those had been what made the clanking noise. Cassiel grimaced; this was one of the Lord’s personal guards&mdash;the Ahm glyph was painted on his breast. He had seen them on rare occasions, observing the crop fields, atop mighty warhorses twice Cassiel’s stature. This one carried a gleaming halberd, its ornate blade of a silvery metal Cassiel had never before seen–similar in color to iron, but lighter in a faint way. Its long hilt was sculpted from a mahogany wood, even darker grain patterns spidering upwards until they converged with the blade. The man held the weapon comfortably, and despite its intimidating height, he looked at ease with it in his grasp. The man was paler than Cassiel, though not by much, with well-kept dark hair and flashing green eyes, common in this area. The man reached into a small pouch on his hip and pulled a dark grey key into the fluttering firelight illuminating the cell. He slipped it into a small lock mechanism, and with a metallic click undid its seal. He heaved the cell door open, even his well-defined muscles straining against the hundred-odd pounds of iron. The man walked over to Cassiel and slid the same key into the mechanism binding his shackles to the iron bar above his head. The man yanked the shackles, hard, all but throwing Cassiel to his feet and eliciting a cry of pain from his bloody lips.
	
“Up, whelp.” The man gripped Cassiel’s shackles firmly in one hand, the black ink of a tattoo depicting an eight-spoked wheel catching Cassiel’s eye for the briefest moment. Cassiel rose as best he could on shaky, weak legs, seeing no other option but to oblige the man. The man laughed cruelly. “Hekharam above, Raf did a number on you, aye? He still lost, though, I suppose.” Cassiel’s heart dropped. So it’s true. He was on charges of revolt. He would be hung in the square, body left to rot in a field, unburied so as to allow scavengers their feast.

The man surveyed Cassiel’s broken form. “Now that I’m looking at you, how in the Realms did you manage to mangle him so? Man looked like the meat we serve you.”

Cassiel swallowed. “I didn’t.”

The man chuckled. “Heard that one before. Although, in your case I might be more inclined to believe, seeing as you can barely stand on those doe legs of yours. Wouldn’t matter either way–the noose still awaits. The Lord can’t be seen as weak, no He cannot.” Tears began to well up in Cassiel’s eyes, and the man’s face twisted into a disgusted grimace. “Oh, save it. I’ve seen hundreds of your kind pass through these cells, and I’ll probably see hundreds more before Ishikh finally takes me. Pity will get you nowhere with me.” He pushed Cassiel forward, throwing him into the cell bars, the clang reverberating around the small stone room. “Now, move.”

Cassiel, using the bars to hold himself from falling to the ground as best he could with shackled hands, made for the cell door. When he crossed the threshold, he could finally see the full extent of the place in which he was kept. It was a long set of hallways, laid out in a sort of gridlike pattern. Cells were in blocks of four, the fifth replaced by a perpendicular corridor. Each cell was nestled against a central stone cube adjacent to the hallway, single-thick walls of granite bricks separating each cell. Braziers were fastened to these separation walls, protected from wayward inmate hands by a solid sheet of iron that replaced each cell’s bars for about a foot on both sides. Most–but not all–were ablaze, casting a flickering, orange-tinged light down the hallway. Cassiel nearly ran into the brazier to the left of his cell in his haste to follow the guard’s orders–and then nearly fell to the ground in an effort to correct his trajectory. The guard laughed cruelly, and nudged him forward. They were headed for a stone staircase cut into the far wall, which spiralled out of view steeply. As Cassiel took the first step up, his already-shaking legs collapsed under him, and he fell to the stones. He managed to twist and dodge cracking his skull open on the steps, but his knees took the brunt of the blow, and Cassiel could feel blood beginning to drip from wounds that would certainly scar over if given the chance. The guard made an annoyed noise, hauled Cassiel back to his feet, and began all but dragging the boy up the staircase. It wasn’t a particularly long climb, but to Cassiel it was hell; his feet caught on every stone, his knees knocked against the steps on more than one occasion, and the guard had him both by the shackles and his shoulder, sending searing spears of pain ripping through his torso.

When they exited the staircase, both Cassiel and the guard began to squint as their eyes adjusted to the much higher light level. The hallway they had entered was ornate, with high, arched ceilings. Frescos of the Holy Ones had been painstakingly done along the walls within shallow inlaid shelves that themselves held potted flowers and vines. There were small domes in the ceiling on regular intervals, each letting in natural light via an overhang mechanism that kept rainwater from entering alongside the sunlight. The floor was adorned with a lavish rug, woven from a fabric whose likeness Cassiel couldn’t place. It had a small repeating pattern embossed into the edges, a metallic silver substance twisting in a unique geometry that seemed somehow wrong to Cassiel. He very suddenly felt empty, where before his head had been whirling with emotions and dread. It now all seemed muted, replaced by a numbness he couldn’t quite explain.

“Enough. Move.” The guard pushed Cassiel forward, who stumbled but just barely caught himself before collapsing to the carpet. Cassiel rose as fast as he could and kept moving, towards two large, heavyset wooden doors, light yellowish-tan in color. The guard pushed the left door open with a grunt, and pulled Cassiel through. A wave of noise washed over Cassiel, a stark contrast to the nearly-silent dungeon. It was hot, much hotter somehow than the building he had exited, though it was open to the heat just the same. The twin suns high above beat down intensely, nearly directly above Cassiel’s head. Before him was a relatively small square, ringed by a low-lying cobblestone wall, overgrown with vines. What must have been hundreds of people stood, corralled by guards, before a large wooden structure, jeering and yelling at nine people who already stood atop it, each with their own guard escort and shackles. The guard escorting Cassiel lead pulled him to the staircase, and up onto the platform, where Cassiel could see the structure in its entirety–a gallows. This was his execution. A fresh spike of terror sliced through Cassiel’s heart, shattering the veil of numbness that had permeated him since coming into contact with the pattern on the rug. This was his execution. He would die here. His body summoned what was probably one last burst of adrenaline–Cassiel fruitlessly struggled against his guard, trying to maybe pull his shackles from the man’s grip. All it earned him was a sharp yank on his chains, and muttered curses as another man in yellow robes began to speak.

This man was shorter, balding, and he had lines etched into his face from an ostensibly many years of living. He wore religious garb, for executions were a religious affair, a muted yellow lined with black. Cassiel had seen holymen similar to this one throughout his life, sometimes preaching in the limited sermons they allowed slaves on important religious occasions, but usually during these events. Executions. Worshippers of Ishikh were recruited from the local clergy and given the task of reading the offenders’ crimes and blessing their death. It was an important ritual among these superstitious lands, for an unblessed execution was equivalent to a death in battle–and those who died in battle do not suffer in the After. The man was reading from a small sheet of parchment, yellowed with age and inscribed with markings that Cassiel had no idea how to even begin to decipher, organized in small rows and larger blocks on the page. The man suddenly gestured to the man on the far side of the platform from Cassiel, and the floor was released from under him. The noose around his neck broke it, and he died almost instantly. A guard secondary to the one holding his chains slipped Cassiel’s own noose around his neck. The man in yellow continued down the line, reading off words that Cassiel didn’t truly understand, like “burglary” and “coveter”, each criminal dying as the last, some taking minutes and others only seconds. It had been just fifteen or so minutes since the whole process began, but to Cassiel it had felt like hours; sweat dripped from his brow, and his body ached.

Finally, the man gestured to Cassiel. “For the crimes of revolt, treason against the Lord, and murder, Cassiel Nehandim is to be hanged until dead.” The priest made a motion to the guard holding Cassiel’s chains, and in the blink of an eye the man let go, threw a lever, and the floor dropped out. Cassiel felt something crack in his spine, and the tips of his fingers began to grow numb. His vision darkened at the edges, and his thoughts grew weak. He tried desperately to draw breath, but his lungs simply refused to acquiesce. The darkness in his vision encroached further and further, until all he could see were tiny pinpricks of his surroundings. His last coherent thought was May Ishikh have mercy on my soul.

+

Cassiel woke on the ground, face down. His ears rang, his throat hurt–indeed, the noose was still tied around it–and his eyesight wavered. For the briefest moment, he stared at the cobblestone, idly wondering what it would be like to be a grain of sand. But his wits returned in a rush, and so did his senses. In fact, the world around him lit up, vibrant colors nearly overwhelming his brain. He could hear his heart pumping, stronger by the moment. Mechanically, Cassiel stood, and took off in a run, his body responding to his every move perfectly and instantly. He was still certainly wounded, blood in fact streamed from several new wounds on his knees and arms from the fall. But it didn’t seem to matter–his body felt strong, light, he felt like he could outrun anything. He shot from underneath the platform, and into the crowd, idly recognizing that the people he passed looked aghast at him, as if he was returned from the dead. Cassiel weaved between reaching arms, his eyes catching movements before they even really happened, the subtle twitch of a muscle about to move more than enough for him to react. A guard tried to catch him with a spear angled directly into his stomach, but Cassiel just ducked and slipped around the man’s back. The end of the crowd was just ahead, and Cassiel blew through it, exiting into what seemed to be a town, which Cassiel had never had to navigate before. He ducked into an alleyway, hoping that it exited somewhere further from scrutiny. Freakishly luckily, it did, exiting into a small plot of cleared land, the beginnings of a project evident in the debris strewn about. Cassiel jumped a plank and ducked under the beginnings of a wall, entering yet another alleyway at the end of which was visible sky. The cutoff of the town was stark, and Cassiel was up to his waist in dry wild grasses almost immediately. Even still, he continued running. He ran and he ran until around him nothing was visible except for the open, untamed plains and the twin suns high above beat down on him harshly.

And then he collapsed. Mid-step, his legs gave out and he rolled into a small depression in the dust and dirt. His legs screamed, and all his pain hit him in a moment. A thousand tiny cuts from the razorgrass he’d run through leaked blood into the dirt, alongside a half dozen other wounds actively leeching away his life. Cassiel screamed, straining against his own skin as his body ripped itself apart. His vision wavered, and then went black. His screams ceased, and he went limp.

Almost immediately, lines of silver began to expand from his heart, darkening and twisting. His wounds began to knit themselves back together. The smaller cuts faded as if magic, and the deeper wounds began to scar over. As the final, worst wounds turned into jagged scars, a breath of relief was expelled from Cassiel’s unconscious lungs. As the silver receded, his body seemed to almost deflate, looking far more like a boy than a feral animal. As the suns began to set, his body laid, limp and scarred, among the razorgrasses and dirt.

---
GET RID OF CASSIEL RUNNING OUT OF THE TOWN--make him hide in the city kvothe-style
---
