### Notes

Timestamp: May 30th, 2025-

This revision is the first to include markdown stylings like italics and bolding. It's mostly grammatical changes, name changes, and expansions. It keeps _mostly_ in line with the last revision, but some changes are major, like the planet's name and the chapter's whole ending.

### Content

Mihr is an endless cycle. Restoration and destruction, Opportunity and failure. Opposite forces battling in futility for control as the eons slip by. Mighty gales and the mountains they break upon, beaches of soft sand and the ships dashed upon them. An _exceedingly_ old planet, a planet whose surface has seen the foundations and destructions of empire innumerable. A planet which has seen the deaths and births of a dozen gods. A planet whose surface seems to stretch on infinitely, each continent practically a world in its own right. Hundreds of millions of people, thousands of languages and tens of thousands of cultures. Even the name "Mihr" is not ubiquitous; the mountain peoples to the North call their lands _K’yavjilakh_, "Fervent Storm," as they see mighty typhoons breaking on the slopes of their mountains. To the far West, they use the word _Fenhelam_, meaning "Third Daughter," in reference to the twin suns high in the heavens. Neither of these two peoples have ever made contact with one another, for there is a great ocean between them, but they share the same planet, they see the same stars, they collect the same resources.

However, on the coast of the continent the mountain peoples call their home, there is another culture. Those who left the mountains many centuries ago, seeking to find their own way. Those who endured storm and flood, those who endured famine and fire. Those who find their home amongst the scraggly foothills, where Mihr itself tries its very hardest to rip them from its surface. Every summer, typhoons thunder across the land, ripping trees from their roots and collapsing cliff sides. Many places are entirely unsuitable for agriculture; the fertility has simply been stripped away after millions of violent storms. And, despite all, humanity always seems to find a way to worm into where they are unwanted. Such are the people of Tekna'li Akih. The Akih are a hardy people. Ruled by a mighty Imperial family situated in the coastal city of Teyuri, their administration is tight and unwavering, determined to render the blunders of their ancestors impossible. Their population is truly mammoth, far into the upper bounds of ten million. However, the vast majority of their populace are lowly farmers, working to supply the Empire’s forces with food and other necessities. These farmers are themselves much beneath the Emperor, more similar to feudal servants. They're usually handled by inconsequential nobles below the right of even a true title, who are in turn handled by nobles less inconsequential and less inconsequential until you reach the Emperor. Many nobles families declare themselves a "house", which is the same in all but name to a vassal nation of the Empire. Each house typically has some kind of internal hierarchy, be it in the same structure as the Empire's, a pseudo-republic as some in the east of the Empire have, or some other system; the Akih are nothing without their order. In return for taxes and fealty, the Emperor allows them near total autonomy, free to clash with their neighbors and claim land as they wish. On more than one occasion, such a house has brought fortune and fame their way by expanding the Empire's borders through conquest of smaller nations or untamed wilderness. It is an arrangement that benefits noble and Empire significantly; the nobles retain autonomy, the Empire retains control.

This is where we shall begin, far beneath the grand machinations of the Imperial court. A noble house called Culiph has carved an estate for themselves amongst the relatively arable flatlands to the northeast of the Empire, allowing them to collect exorbitant tariffs on goods entering through the Elathm river. This has made them rich indeed, and their lands now stretch some five hundred kilometers inland from the coast of the Great Sea. However, even below the Highlord of Culiph, there are its daughter branches, smaller houses that pay fealty to Culiph rather than the Empire. One of these branches is called Amh. They possess an especially arable estate, and as such are incredibly reliant on agriculture. Nearly all of their lands are acreages, with villages sprinkled between and a single city. They specialize in a squat, robust crop called spikeweed, perfect for the unpredictable maritime climate they exist in. But even despite its ruggedness, spikeweed isn't invincible, and in recent months even this juggernaut had begun to falter. The summer had been merciless, twin suns beating down ferociously on the fields. Water had begun to dry with haste and plants began to wilt and die. This was called a Twofold Summer, when both suns are aligned in summertime–and this spelled famine for the Amh, and the wider Empire as a whole. Nearly half of their total grain and fruit production came from Culiph, and if a crop failed, it would not be pretty. This year's crop had failed. Terribly. Nearly half of all the plants seeded this year had died, and tithes and taxes to those above them still required a payment. Their own estate militia also had to be paid and equipped. Import taxes were extreme, imposed by the Ral estate situated directly in the delta to Amh's west. The Amh had expected a decree from their Highlord, that in order to keep the Empire whole the Ral must lower taxes. But, strangely, one had never come. The Highlord remained silent. The Twofold Summer was in its peak now, and damage was already done. The Amh lord had begun falling back on stored rations to feed his soldiers, and his slaves got less than half of what already meager sustenance they had been afforded. No soul was left unscathed; man, woman, nor child. But the slaves certainly felt it the worst. Expectations to work interminable hours tending to crops or building infrastructure, the ever-present heat, and food now far too miniscule to sustain them, all of it came at a horrifying cost. All but the lord’s favorites had become emaciated over the months of calamity, and _many_ had perished. All now worked with less vim, and not just simply because they were fatigued of the labor. Their very souls were running on fumes.
	
This decrease in productivity, however, greatly displeased the lord. He saw it not as a consequence of his policies, but as an _affront_ to his policies. The slaves were his property, they should do what he says, regardless of their starvation! And so he spared not one thought of empathy with the dead and dying working in his fields. Despite the lack of proper trade in Amh province, the slave trade was mostly conducted over land, facilitated by wandering slave caravans. The caravans continued to come, and as long as wars were being fought, slaves were cheap. And so, if one died it caused no real interruption. _But_, should a soldier die, it would take months to replace them. Training, equipment, pension&mdash;all at the cost of many resources. Slaves that worked less would produce less, and without proper food and pay for their troops, a lord’s livelihood was at stake. Petty squabbles among small lords had become increasingly common as of late. It was not uncommon for entire properties to be conquered in less than a month. The Highlord usually expressed his disapproval, but never directly stepped in, so long as his borders were secure and his taxes paid, it mattered not to him who paid nor protected them. But recently, even his disapproval was no longer expressed. It seemed to the smaller lords as if the old Highlord's will was wearing weak, and they pushed their advantage. New land was acquired, new alliances were made. New wars, new squabbles, new politics. And so, as these things go, the lords were perpetually paranoid of attack. In their minds, an impressive standing militia must be maintained, lest their weakness be exploited by an opponent. The slave lives spent in order to maintain this might were inconsequential&mdash;their sacrifice was for the greater good. In the lord’s mind, at least. The slaves, rightly, did not share such a viewpoint. The callousness of their treatment was not lost on them, but many of their number were dead or dying. _All_ of their number were starving. Their situation was entirely hopeless when any resistance was compared to the better-fed and better-equipped soldiers employed by their respective lords. Even the young among them, typically much more prone to acting rashly, understood this. And so they worked. Worked under the harsh twin suns, pulling spikefruit from the bush and enduring the violent tempers of their overseers. Because they could do nothing. Not without a miracle.

<p align="center">— <  •  > —</p>

Cassiel, not yet of even fifteen harvests old, was a slave born into the servitude of Mahi Ahm, the Amh lord. Cassiel worked in the fields surrounding the Amh seat of power, a modest city sitting directly in the center of the property. He had been raised by slave parents who themselves came from a line of slaves stretching into antiquity. His parents were long gone, though Cassiel could not remember what happened to them. His memory, these days, wavered, and often eluded him entirely. His body, far smaller than any boy's his age had any right to be, ran on autopilot. A comforting barrier of grey separated his mind from his ugly reality, and the ache of his malnourished muscles faded away as his brain spun to a halt. Remembrance of the past would only serve to further ruin him, his subconscious knew this best. And so Cassiel was quiet, docile, meek. _Silent_. He did what was asked of him, no more, no less. Standing out would get him beaten. Invisible. It kept him safe&mdash;while others were beaten bloody and killed for the slightest of infractions, overseers typically did not even acknowledge Cassiel. Typically. He still had far more than his fair share of scars, jagged reminders of terrible lessons burned into his very soul. Every movement rubbed his shredded tunic against the ever-so-slightly raised lines marring his olive skin. Each step reminded his clouded consciousness of twists and sprains gone untended, of callousness and carelessness gone hand-in-hand. He did not look his age. No, he did not look his age. His hands and feet were calloused, Cassiel could not remember ever having proper shoes. His haphazardly-shorn hair hung limp around his head in a sort of matted mop. His posture was slouched, subservient, and careful, each step carried out lightly. Each sound made him subconsciously tense. No, Cassiel did not look “yet fifteen harvests old.”

He knelt down beside a spikeweed plant, the pose creating a new kind of muted pain in his calves&mdash;not that Cassiel paid it any heed. His movements were robotic, each fruit picked from the bush evenly and carefully. A few of the plant’s barbs dug into the back of Cassiel’s hand, and blood started leaking from the cuts. His rhythm did not break. Cassiel’s hand wrapped around one of the spikefruit, a particularly ripe one. Its flesh was a sickly green, and it was bulbous in shape. Small spines were positioned in horizontal rings, which meant there was a very particular way you had to grab the fruit in order to not get pierced. All four fingers had to be splayed out between the rings, and the thumb had to rest carefully against the bottom of the fruit, which had one large barb instead of many tiny ones. Spikeweed was not what most would choose as their first option for produce, but it had a property that made it incredibly good for slave-driven agriculture; spikefruit killed unless cooked. It prevented slaves from just eating that which they harvested, and as such, protected the bottom line. The slaves were made very aware of this, but that didn’t stop some desperate souls from trying periodically. Their bodies were left in the fields to rot, labor costs to remove them not truly worth it in the minds of the overseers. It wasn’t uncommon to come across a bleached skull or shard of femur lodged in a thicket of crop, though most remnants were blown away during storms. Cassiel, like every other slave in the fields, carried a small woven basket, no doubt handmade by another group of slaves. This basket could hold about thirty fruit, usually enough to collect the fruit of about forty plants during any one pass during peak harvesting season. The drought, however, had changed this starkly. It had been _seventy_ plants since the last time Cassiel had emptied the basket. This produced endless anger among the overseers. The overseers themselves would be punished if the slaves did not produce a set quota under them, a policy which always seemed to trickle down violently to the slaves themselves. There always must be someone for them to blame, someone to hurt. The slaves knew this; there was no arguing with the overseers, that got you hanged. A good slave simply tried not to get in their way. 

_A good slave_. A truly evil phrase if there ever was one. There was not any such thing, in sane reality. To be a slave was to have your innate being stolen, to be forced to do horrific things in the name of your lord. “Goodness” had no bearing on it; you carried out your tasks. That was your place, and any attempt to challenge this would be met with extreme reaction. A truly “good slave” was one who worked himself to death. Someone who took the blame. Someone who _died well_. A pounding suddenly began in Cassiel’s head, much worse than the ever-present headache that accompanied dehydration. He tried to ignore it, retracting even further into his comforting haze, surrendering even more of his consciousness. It worked, for a few moments. The grey muted all emotions, all hurting, and, most importantly, all memories. Slowly, the muscles Cassiel had not even meant to tense relaxed. He continued picking spikefruit. Methodic, robotic, silent. Rustling stems were the only noise as Cassiel reached for fruit that seemed to be retreating into its plant under the harsh suns. Loose pebbles and dead stems littered the ground beneath him, crunching as he walked. Cassiel's eyes were unfocused, glazed over, he had truly retreated from his own mind. He was piloted by muscle memory and a skeleton crew of thought. Indeed, he was so removed from controlling his body that when an overseer tromped up, he didn't react. Cassiel just kept picking. When the overseer barked an order to kneel, Cassiel just kept picking. When the overseer called out again, Cassiel just kept picking. Finally, the slimy man put his hand on Cassiel's shoulder. Cassiel's haze was burned away. The smell of fire, screaming for attention as if a siren. His rhythm shattered in an instant. A searing heat pressed against the back of his eyes. 

_Fire, an inferno that consumed their barracks. Blood, a trail leading to the barred front door. An iron lock on a door that the small fingers of a child could not quite pull open. The desperate screams of a wife, the flailing of small limbs, the smell of singed flesh as a brand was pressed into a small chest. His chest. BLOODSIN._ 

No. No, no, no, _NO_. That wasn’t how it had happened. His father had done something, something evil. That's what the overseers said. They had burned him for his crimes, this was justice, this was justice!&mdash;but no. It wasn’t. He hadn’t done anything but be human. His father had been as good a man as his circumstances allowed. His father had just spoken up when another slave was being beaten. His father just hadn't been able to take the cruelty any longer. There had been no&hellip;reason&hellip; Cassiel stared at his hands, and the woven basket in them. His haze was gone, all comfort had disappeared, hideous reality staring him in the face. He was quiet for a moment, his mouth working silently. And then, Cassiel _broke_. A strangled scream tore from his throat, as if that of a wounded animal in its death throes. Fire. Blood. An iron lock. _The_ iron lock His failure. He couldn't _do_ anything. He couldn't save them. Why did they let him live? Oh, gods above, _WHY DID THEY LET HIM LIVE?_ Twisting, clicking, always _clicking_. A constant reminder, a constant drone in the very back of Cassiel’s mind, a constant noise that made him _shake_ and _retch_ and _remember_. _He needed to get ahold of himself._ Bring back the grey haze. Bring back a white noise that bled over all others, thoughts and feelings just out of reach. Always out of reach. For his safety. For his safety.

_A woman grabbed at Cassiel's tunic. "Cas, no! Stay back! For your safety!"_

Cassiel’s basket tumbled from his shaking hands, the fruit spilling onto the ground what felt like a continent away. Fire. Blood. An iron lock. One last awful, pleading scream as fire consumed all. A horrible, vile choking noise as a boot pressed harder down onto a thin throat. One last struggling gasp and a final, _vile_ crunch. A body, olive skin like Cassiel's, lying in the dirt. Tears tracks running down her face, already drying in the dry heat. Hair splayed out behind her, matted and tangled. Silence for a moment, and then cruel, disgusting laughter. The cries of a little boy, held back in one hand like an errant puppy. Cassiel pressed his hands to his eyes, which had begun to weep. Hands far too scarred for a boy so young became covered in tears far too justified. He pressed harder and _harder_, trying to block out the harsh twin sunlights. Trying to block out the memory, the smell, the death and the sorrow. A true, inhuman shriek came from somewhere deep inside him. The terror he had suppressed and forced down endlessly for nearly a decade suddenly _exploded_ to the surface. His fingers, their nails cracked and dirty, sliced through his own skin as if paper, leaving leaking wells of red down his face. The tears and the blood mixed, dripping to the ground and staining the dirt. It felt as if every fiber of his being was being rent apart, as if a million million hammers were striking his skull at once. The overseer pursed his lips. He pulled his hand back as if to slap Cassiel, and just as he was tensing to swing&hellip;

_Cassiel&hellip;_

Cassiel’s eyes, at long last, flew open. But they were _wrong_, unseeing and cold in the way they regarded the world. His pupils were dilating and contracting wildly, as if he was having a seizure. Cassiel grabbed the overseer by the neck. In him Cassiel saw the three men. Those men who had stolen his life, stolen his family. Those men who had _ruined it all_. In the overseer, Cassiel saw a chance for _justice_. He gripped the man's neck harder, strength that made no logical sense making the overseer choke and gasp. Cassiel kept gripping, tighter and tighter. The overseer looked into the eyes of death, and it was a scarred little boy of not even fifteen. Cassiel opened his mouth, and a voice that was not his came from his throat.

"THERE WILL BE NO MORE SECOND CHANCES."

The man began to weep, as Cassiel gripped tighter. He pathetically gasped, trying desperately to draw in breath. Twisting sanguine lines had begun to form from the blood dripping down Cassiel's face. Down his neck, arms, legs, forming into a network that seemed to radiate from his heart, though the blood was supplied from his face. The long-ruined fabric of his tunic finally gave way, and its shreds dropped to his face, just in time to see the blood filling in the brand on his chest. A single glyph.

"BLOODSIN. YOU NAME ME BLOODSIN."

There was great and terrible anger in not-Cassiel's voice. As it touched the brand, the blood became something that was not quite blood, thicker and almost iridescent. The lines twitched and writhed as they grew, working themselves into the archaic glyphs of a language that was long, long forgotten. Each track was a very slightly different shade, largely imperceptible to the naked eye. In a final burst, Cassiel snapped the overseer's neck, and let him fall. The man was much less imposing on the ground, an expression of pain and anguish on his face. As the final few blood-glyphs grew close to termination, Cassiel’s body began to shake. Every single muscle tensed and relaxed at sporadic intervals, as if his very soul was fighting desperately to keep itself in one piece. Atrophied tendons flexed as if mustering one last burst of strength; as if the death of a supernova playing out in real time. Blood began to seep through Cassiel’s lips, and a staccato gasp shook his small body. The same voice that had before come from his throat cut through the agony in his mind.

_YOU ARE NOT READY._

A sudden, wracking cough brought the whole ordeal to a concise halt. The ancient glyphs faded and Cassiel’s body’s last vestiges of strength failed. His legs' strength finally ran dry, and he collapsed. Laying in the dirt and the pebbles, discarded spikeweed spines digging into his flesh, his eyes fell shut. And he was still, still as death.

Fire. Blood. An iron lock.
	
_Click. Click. Click._

<p align="center">— <  •  > —</p>

--edit end--

Cassiel woke to the sound of metal clanking on stone. His body was weak, indeed so weak that for a moment he felt as if he couldn’t even breathe. The metal clanking noise grew quieter, as if moving away, and after a few moments Cassiel caught his breath enough to take inventory of the rest of his body. His face felt tight, as if covered in a layer of dried mud, and a terrible cold radiated from the center of his chest. From the mark. Terror began to rise in Cassiel’s mind again, but with an uncharacteristic amount of conscious effort, he pushed it down. The world before him swam and wavered, as if unbearably hot–but Cassiel was shivering. He looked up, neck joints popping and crackling, and saw his hands shackled to an iron bar, itself bolted into a wall of strong, grey granite. He stared dully at the bar for a moment. Where am I? He felt…different, as if something had been taken from him. Or given to him? There were so many thoughts and emotions whirling around in his head, and he couldn’t make sense of a single one. It was all so overwhelming, it felt as if he was a colorblind man truly seeing a sunset for the first time. He felt things, he thought things, he was himself. Cassiel focused on lifting his foot from the ground, and it actually did what he asked. He was in control. For the first time in a long, long time, his body was his. But it was not all so enthralling. Without the comforting barrier of indifference, the back of his mind churned, horrifying memories clawing their way past barriers now gone unguarded. That same terror from before began to rise again, and it was much, much harder to push it down this time. A trick of the light, surely, but Cassiel could swear that there was the faint afterimage twisting red lines just beneath his skin. He only saw it for a moment, and then they disappeared. Something was wrong. Very wrong.
	
A cough wracked his body, a small spatter of blood soaking into his soiled tunic. An awful draft cut through him, sending Cassiel into a bout of shivering that refused to abate.
	
“Father above, you’re going to die before the guards even return,” a voice suddenly cut through the air. “Not that I would blame you, of course. Seems you’ve been through quite an ordeal.”
	
Cassiel’s head snapped to the right, a spear of pain at the sudden movement eliciting a groan of pain.
	
“Careful now.” The man was tall, and he leaned against the wall facing the cell bars. His skin was dark, much darker than Cassiel’s, likely from far further South. He was completely bald, and his eyes were a stormy grey that somehow seemed to move when he looked at you. He wore strange clothes, of woven beige fabric adorned with hundreds of small green crystals. A glyph unknown to Cassiel was painted on his chest in grey, its shade exactly matching his eyes.
	
“W—” Cassiel’s voice broke without allowing him to speak even a full word. He swallowed hard, ignoring the stabbing pain in his throat, and tried to continue. “Are you?” He degenerated into a coughing fit, his body shaking as more blood spattered onto his chest.
	
The man tsked. “That is quite concerning. I would bet money on a collapsed lung, at the very least.”
	
As his coughing fit subsided, Cassiel gestured with his hands, trying to prompt an answer from the man. He just chuckled.
	
“A man. A man from far, far away from this wretched land.” The man’s eyes studied Cassiel, seemingly waiting for something.
	
“Why am I…here?” Cassiel managed to get out. His memory of what had happened before waking up here was wavy at best. All he remembered was a horrible pain, and an awful, inhuman screaming.
	
“They say you killed an overseer,” the man replied, the barest hint of a smile on his face.
	
Cassiel blanched. “W—” his voice broke. “What?”
	
The man’s extraordinarily white teeth peeked through his now full-fledged grin. “Yes. In the fields. A bastard named Raf, they say.”
	
Cassiel paled further. He knew exactly what awaited him for the killing of an overseer; a public hanging. He had been forced to watch others hang as an example. Hekharam above… 

The man hissed. “Do not speak his name here. I will not have his utterance sullied within such a vile place.”

Speak? He hadn’t said anything out loud. Cassiel noticed something. During the brief time they had been talking, the man had begun to change. His skin had turned almost translucent, to the point that the edges of his fingertips were all but invisible. The previously vibrant green crystals hanging from his clothes seemed to be growing dun, lifeless. The man noticed Cassiel’s staring and smiled again, though the gesture seemed to be weaker than it had before. Cassiel opened his mouth to speak, to ask the question that had been weighing on his mind since he had first caught a glimpse of the man, What are you?

Before he could speak any words, though, both of them were distracted by a metallic clanking against stone, getting louder by the moment. The man made an annoyed noise, and turned his head back to Cassiel. “All questions will be answered duly in time. I have been here far too long already.” He strode over to Cassiel’s limp body, chained to the wall, and knelt. He pressed three fingers to the center of Cassiel’s chest, where that terrible cold still radiated from. “You must find the path. You must remember. You must understand. And when you return to us, you must join in our righteous crusade. You must see our reason. You are our only hope.”
	
As the clanking grew ever closer, the man flashed Cassiel one last grin, and disappeared. Completely and utterly, in the blink of an eye. Cassiel whipped his head around, his neck crackling and sending spears of pain to his brain in the process, but the man was just…gone.

A voice came from outside the cell, accompanied by a resounding clang on the bars. “Rise and shine, little usurper.”

A man, tall and imposing, stood on the other side of the cell bars. He was dressed in finery, silver metal plates armoring his shoulders, forearms, and thighs, while leather covered the rest. He wore sabatons, interlocking sheets of metal providing him with simultaneous mobility and protection–those had been what made the clanking noise. Cassiel balked; this was one of the Lord’s personal guards. He had seen them on rare occasions, observing the crop fields, atop mighty warhorses twice Cassiel’s stature. This one carried a gleaming halberd, its ornate blade of a silvery metal Cassiel had never before seen–similar in color to iron, but lighter in a faint way. Its long hilt was sculpted from a mahogany wood, even darker grain patterns spidering upwards until they converged with the blade. The man held the weapon comfortably, and despite its intimidating height, he looked at ease with it in his grasp. The man was paler than Cassiel, though not by much, with well-kept dark hair and flashing green eyes, common in this area. The man reached into a small pouch on his hip and pulled a dark grey key into the fluttering firelight illuminating the cell. He slipped it into a small lock mechanism, and with a metallic click undid its seal. He heaved the cell door open, even his well-defined muscles straining against the hundred-odd pounds of iron. The man walked over to Cassiel and slid the same key into the mechanism binding his shackles to the iron bar above his head. The man yanked the shackles, hard, all but throwing Cassiel to his feet and eliciting a cry of pain from his bloody lips.
	
“Up, whelp.” The man gripped Cassiel’s shackles firmly in one hand, the black ink of a tattoo depicting an eight-spoked wheel catching Cassiel’s eye for the briefest moment. Cassiel rose as best he could on shaky, weak legs, seeing no other option but to oblige the man. The man laughed cruelly. “Hekharam above, Raf did a number on you, aye? He still lost, though, I suppose.” Cassiel’s heart dropped. So it’s true. He was on charges of revolt. He would be hung in the square, body left to rot in a field, unburied so as to allow scavengers their feast.

The man surveyed Cassiel’s broken form. “Now that I’m looking at you, how in the Realms did you manage to mangle him so? Man looked like the meat we serve you.”
Cassiel swallowed. “I didn’t.”

The man chuckled. “Heard that one before. Although, in your case I might be more inclined to believe, seeing as you can barely stand on those doe legs of yours. Wouldn’t matter either way–the noose still awaits. The Lord can’t be seen as weak, no He cannot.” Tears began to well up in Cassiel’s eyes, and the man’s face twisted into a disgusted grimace. “Oh, save it. I’ve seen hundreds of your kind pass through these cells, and I’ll probably see hundreds more before Ishikh finally takes me. Pity will get you nowhere with me.” He pushed Cassiel forward, throwing him into the cell bars, the clang reverberating around the small stone room. “Now, move.”

Cassiel, using the bars to hold himself from falling to the ground as best he could with shackled hands, made for the cell door. When he crossed the threshold, he could finally see the full extent of the place in which he was kept. It was a long set of hallways, laid out in a sort of gridlike pattern. Cells were in blocks of four, the fifth replaced by a perpendicular corridor. Each cell was nestled against a central stone cube adjacent to the hallway, single-thick walls of granite bricks separating each cell. Braziers were fastened to these separation walls, protected from wayward inmate hands by a solid sheet of iron that replaced each cell’s bars for about a foot on both sides. Most–but not all–were ablaze, casting a flickering, orange-tinged light down the hallway. Cassiel nearly ran into the brazier to the left of his cell in his haste to follow the guard’s orders–and then nearly fell to the ground in an effort to correct his trajectory. The guard laughed cruelly, and nudged him forward. They were headed for a stone staircase cut into the far wall, which spiralled out of view steeply. As Cassiel took the first step up, his already-shaking legs collapsed under him, and he fell to the stones. He managed to twist and dodge cracking his skull open on the steps, but his knees took the brunt of the blow, and Cassiel could feel blood beginning to drip from wounds that would certainly scar over if given the chance. The guard made an annoyed noise, hauled Cassiel back to his feet, and began all but dragging the boy up the staircase. It wasn’t a particularly long climb, but to Cassiel it was hell; his feet caught on every stone, his knees knocked against the steps on more than one occasion, and the guard had him both by the shackles and his shoulder, sending searing spears of pain ripping through his torso.

When they exited the staircase, both Cassiel and the guard began to squint as their eyes adjusted to the much higher light level. The hallway they had entered was ornate, with high, arched ceilings. Frescos of the Holy Ones had been painstakingly done along the walls within shallow inlaid shelves that themselves held potted flowers and vines. There were small domes in the ceiling on regular intervals, each letting in natural light via an overhang mechanism that kept rainwater from entering alongside the sunlight. The floor was adorned with a lavish rug, woven from a fabric whose likeness Cassiel couldn’t place. It had a small repeating pattern embossed into the edges, a metallic silver substance twisting in a unique geometry that seemed somehow wrong to Cassiel. He very suddenly felt empty, where before his head had been whirling with emotions and dread. It now all seemed muted, replaced by a numbness he couldn’t quite explain.

“Enough. Move.” The guard pushed Cassiel forward, who stumbled but just barely caught himself before collapsing to the carpet. Cassiel rose as fast as he could and kept moving, towards two large, heavyset wooden doors, light yellowish-tan in color. The guard pushed the left door open with a grunt, and pulled Cassiel through. A wave of noise washed over Cassiel, a stark contrast to the nearly-silent dungeon. It was hot, much hotter somehow than the building he had exited, though it was open to the heat just the same. The twin suns high above beat down intensely, nearly directly above Cassiel’s head. Before him was a relatively small square, ringed by a low-lying cobblestone wall, overgrown with vines. What must have been hundreds of people stood, corralled by guards, before a large wooden structure, jeering and yelling at nine people who already stood atop it, each with their own guard escort and shackles. The guard escorting Cassiel lead pulled him to the staircase, and up onto the platform, where Cassiel could see the structure in its entirety–a gallows. This was his execution. A fresh spike of terror sliced through Cassiel’s heart, shattering the veil of numbness that had permeated him since coming into contact with the pattern on the rug. This was his execution. He would die here. His body summoned what was probably one last burst of adrenaline–Cassiel fruitlessly struggled against his guard, trying to maybe pull his shackles from the man’s grip. All it earned him was a sharp yank on his chains, and muttered curses as another man in yellow robes began to speak.

This man was shorter, balding, and he had lines etched into his face from an ostensibly many years of living. He wore religious garb, for executions were a religious affair, a muted yellow lined with black. Cassiel had seen holymen similar to this one throughout his life, sometimes preaching in the limited sermons they allowed slaves on important religious occasions, but usually during these events. Executions. Worshippers of Ishikh were recruited from the local clergy and given the task of reading the offenders’ crimes and blessing their death. It was an important ritual among these superstitious lands, for an unblessed execution was equivalent to a death in battle–and those who died in battle do not suffer in the After. The man was reading from a small sheet of parchment, yellowed with age and inscribed with markings that Cassiel had no idea how to even begin to decipher, organized in small rows and larger blocks on the page. The man suddenly gestured to the man on the far side of the platform from Cassiel, and the floor was released from under him. The noose around his neck broke it, and he died almost instantly. A guard secondary to the one holding his chains slipped Cassiel’s own noose around his neck. The man in yellow continued down the line, reading off words that Cassiel didn’t truly understand, like “burglary” and “coveter”, each criminal dying as the last, some taking minutes and others only seconds. It had been just fifteen or so minutes since the whole process began, but to Cassiel it had felt like hours; sweat dripped from his brow, and his body ached.

Finally, the man gestured to Cassiel. “For the crimes of revolt, treason against the Lord, and murder, Cassiel Nehandim is to be hanged until dead.” The priest made a motion to the guard holding Cassiel’s chains, and in the blink of an eye the man let go, threw a lever, and the floor dropped out. Cassiel felt something crack in his spine, and the tips of his fingers began to grow numb. His vision darkened at the edges, and his thoughts grew weak. He tried desperately to draw breath, but his lungs simply refused to acquiesce. The darkness in his vision encroached further and further, until all he could see were tiny pinpricks of his surroundings. His last coherent thought was May Ishikh have mercy on my soul.

— <  •  > —

Cassiel woke on the ground, face down. His ears rang, his throat hurt–indeed, the noose was still tied around it–and his eyesight wavered. For the briefest moment, he stared at the cobblestone, idly wondering what it would be like to be a grain of sand. But his wits returned in a rush, and so did his senses. In fact, the world around him lit up, vibrant colors nearly overwhelming his brain. He could hear his heart pumping, stronger by the moment. Mechanically, Cassiel stood, and took off in a run, his body responding to his every move perfectly and instantly. He was still certainly wounded, blood in fact streamed from several new wounds on his knees and arms from the fall. But it didn’t seem to matter–his body felt strong, light, he felt like he could outrun anything. He shot from underneath the platform, and into the crowd, idly recognizing that the people he passed looked aghast at him, as if he was returned from the dead. Cassiel weaved between reaching arms, his eyes catching movements before they even really happened, the subtle twitch of a muscle about to move more than enough for him to react. A guard tried to catch him with a spear angled directly into his stomach, but Cassiel just ducked and slipped around the man’s back. The end of the crowd was just ahead, and Cassiel blew through it, exiting into what seemed to be a town, which Cassiel had never had to navigate before. He ducked into an alleyway, hoping that it exited somewhere further from scrutiny. Freakishly luckily, it did, exiting into a small plot of cleared land, the beginnings of a project evident in the debris strewn about. Cassiel jumped a plank and ducked under the beginnings of a wall, entering yet another alleyway at the end of which was visible sky. The cutoff of the town was stark, and Cassiel was up to his waist in dry wild grasses almost immediately. Even still, he continued running. He ran and he ran until around him nothing was visible except for the open, untamed plains and the twin suns high above beat down on him harshly.

And then he collapsed. Mid-step, his legs gave out and he rolled into a small depression in the dust and dirt. His legs screamed, and all his pain hit him in a moment. A thousand tiny cuts from the razorgrass he’d run through leaked blood into the dirt, alongside a half dozen other wounds actively leeching away his life. Cassiel screamed, straining against his own skin as his body ripped itself apart. His vision wavered, and then went black. His screams ceased, and he went limp.

Almost immediately, lines of silver began to expand from his heart, darkening and twisting. His wounds began to knit themselves back together. The smaller cuts faded as if magic, and the deeper wounds began to scar over. As the final, worst wounds turned into jagged scars, a breath of relief was expelled from Cassiel’s unconscious lungs. As the silver receded, his body seemed to almost deflate, looking far more like a boy than a feral animal. As the suns began to set, his body laid, limp and scarred, among the razorgrasses and dirt.

---
GET RID OF CASSIEL RUNNING OUT OF THE TOWN--make him hide in the city kvothe-style
---